Agrias butterfly

Agrias claudina sardanapalus





Agrias butterfly
ミイロタテハ Miirotateha









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#7
#7
#7
–
#10







Location
Price


Flying (near flowers)
3,000 Bells4,500 Bells if sold to Flick




Size
Available in rain


42 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


June to September (WW, CF, NL)April to September (NH, north)October to March (NH, south)
8 am to 5 pm



Scientific name
Agrias claudina sardanapalus


Family
Nymphalidae- Brush-Footed Butterflies



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The agrias butterfly, Agrias claudina sardanapalus, is a rare bug in the Animal Crossing series that was introduced in Wild World. It can be found in summer between the hours of 8 am and 5 pm. In all games before New Horizons, it spawns between the months of June and September. They are more abundant during the month of September and are considerably easier to encounter in City Folk than in Wild World. In New Horizons, they appear from April to September in the northern hemisphere and from October to March in the southern hemisphere.

4,500 Bells if sold to Flick
At first, they fly at the speed of typical butterflies. But when disturbed, either by running nearby or by missing with the net, they speed up tremendously and immediately flee.

Upon donating to the museum, Blathers the curator will say:

"The agrias butterfly is said to be quite an agile flier. I'm shocked you snared one! Yes, rather impressive! I know for a fact that I could never do it, wot! Or, to be more accurate, catching one would never even cross my mind...Fleeing from one...That I might do!"

It can be found on or flying around the row of flowers on the right of the first room, with the other butterflies.

Upon donating to the museum, Blathers the curator will say:

"I must commend you for catching this particular type of butterfly! The agrias butterfly's atypical flight pattern has earned it the nickname "King of the Butterflies." It's such a swift flier that most enthusiasts who attempt to catch one rely on traps, eh wot? I daresay I'd lose a race with this flittering thing... Though I'd likely pass out from mortal revulsion first."

It can found flying in the bottom terrace by the entrance of the bug room, with other butterflies.

An information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Agrias butterflies are argued to have the most beautiful wings of all butterfly species.  They're capable of flying quite fast, making them more difficult to catch than a number of their peers.  Their wings sport three colors -- red, blue, and black -- but many have different patterns and shapes."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Some say the agrias butterfly is one of the most beautiful butterflies in the world. Bah, I say! BAH! They may have brightly colored wings, but the way they flutter and flitter...SO FOUL! In fact, the agrias butterfly flies so fast, it is quite a feat to catch one. I suppose I should congratulate you on your good fortune... But catching any bug seems a misfortune to me."

The butterfly can be found in the butterfly room of the bug exhibit, flying during the day and resting on flowers at night.





An agrias butterfly
Agrias butterflies are a tropical genus consisting of multiple species all native to the rainforests of South America. Due to its habits it is rarely seen and only comes down to drink from puddles and to feed. Most sightings occur early in the morning, as this is when butterflies of all types will feed; when the temperature rises they retreat to the shady canopy. Many closely related species occur, each of which sport a unique color and marking combination. The family Nymphalidae or "Brush-footed butterflies" which this butterfly is placed within gets its name from the forelegs of the adults, which are small and hairy, and resemble small brushes. Unless observed very closely, these legs are virtually impossible to see, and due to their size, they are not used in walking.




