Angelfish

River





Angelfish
#900
エンゼルフュ Enzerufisshu







Location
River


Price (Nook)
3,000 Bells


Price (C.J.)
4,500 Bells

Shadow size
Small


Seasonality (N)
May to October


Seasonality (S)
November to April


Time of day
4pm - 9am


Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The angelfish is an uncommon fish with coloration similar to that of the barred knifejaw. It can be found in the river and appears between 4 PM to 9 AM from the months of May to October (Northern Hemisphere) or November to April (Southern Hemisphere). It sells for 3,000 Bells at Nook's Cranny.



As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the angelfish can be donated to the museum by talking Blathers.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Gorgeous. Sim-ply gorgeous. Heavenly, even. We will treasure your gift. I give you my word as an honest, upstanding owl."

It can be found in the bottom-right tank, along with most other rare river fish.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"The angelfish is called the queen of tropical fish, and quite rightly so, eh wot! Indeed, this one should bring a ray of sunshine to this dusty old museum! However serene these fish may look, they're actually rather feisty...Every rose has its thorn, isn't that what they say?"

It can be found in the second tank, after donating it to museum.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"The distinctive shape of the angelfish lets it appear larger than it actually is. ...It's quite beautiful, and though it is a tropical fish, it has many tricks for staying alive, eh wot? Those skills make it far more resilient than other, pampered tropical fish. Perhaps this fact is what earned the angelfish the title "Tropical Fish Queen." "

It can be found in the bottom-left tank with the coral in it with other small river fish.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These tropical fish move very gracefully because of long fins on their backs and underbellies. Males and females are almost impossible to tell apart, making identification tricky. They lay eggs among water plants. Both genders look after the babies while they cling to weeds. The young look like any other fish, but they gain their angelfish looks once they leave the weeds."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"The angelfish is truly a beautiful creature. Just look at the elegance of those fins! Despite the name, however, these lovelies are known to be rather aggressive... They've no qualms about relentlessly pursuing fish much smaller than themselves! Why, they even attack their own kin! It seems no fish is safe around these "angelic" bullies. It makes one wonder who comes up with these names. Appearances—and names—can be deceiving."

A single angelfish can be found in the ornamental fish tank in the freshwater room of the aquarium.









A real-life angelfish.
The angelfish (Pterophyllum altum) is found in the Amazon basin and can grow to a maximum length of 50cm, which is far larger than the angelfish in Animal Crossing. Its striped coloration lets it camouflage more effectively amongst the foliage of the river and avoid predators. Its distinctive shape and colors have made it a famous fish, and it is the national fish of Venezuela.




