Animal Crossing: Wild World

Nintendo EAD



Animal Crossing: Wild World
おいでよ　どうぶつの森 Oideyo Dōbutsu no Mori










North American box art




Developer
Nintendo EAD


Publisher
Nintendo



Platforms
Nintendo DSWii U (Virtual Console)


Release date
Nintendo DS November 23rd, 2005 December 5th, 2005 December 8th, 2005 March 31st, 2006 December 6th, 2007Wii U November 20th, 2015 July 27th, 2016, October 13th, 2016


Genre
Life simulation


Modes
Single playerMultiplayer (online)


Ratings
CERO: AESRB: E (Everyone)OFLC: GPEGI: 3+


https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/wiki/File:ACWW_Main_Theme.ogg


Animal Crossing: Wild World, known in Japan as Animal Forest: Come on Over (おいでよ　どうぶつの森[1] Oideyo Dōbutsu no Mori?) is a life simulation game for the Nintendo DS, set in a town where the player is a person who lives among animals and other creatures. It is a follow-up to the 2002 hit Animal Crossing for the Nintendo GameCube and the Japan-only Animal Forest, Animal Forest+, and Animal Forest e+. This is also the first South Korean release, known as Animal Forest: Come in to Play (놀러오세요 동물의숲, Nollo Oseyo Dongmul-ui Soup) in South Korea. It was also unofficially translated into Mandarin Chinese as Welcome to the Animal Forest (欢迎来到动物之森/歡迎來到動物之森), Huānyíng lái dào dòngwù zhī sēn)[2]. During development, the working title was 'Animal Crossing DS'. 

The important features of the first Animal Crossing series game return in this one, but with improvements and many changes. Activities in town include buying and selling items, fishing, and several others, especially becoming friends with the villagers. The game occurs in real time, with the real calendar, and time progresses even when the game is turned off.

Wild World is the second Nintendo title that uses the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection (the first being Mario Kart DS). This lets players use wireless access points to connect to the Internet and visit other players' towns.

As of May 20th, 2014, Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection on the Nintendo DS and Nintendo Wii has been discontinued. This terminated Animal Crossing: Wild World's Wi-Fi capability. The local multiplayer will still work because it does not use Wi-Fi. However, some Homebrew developers have created their own custom servers allowing Wild World to be played online again.

Wild World was released in Japan on November 23, 2005. It was released in North America on December 5, 2005, in time for Christmas. It was released in Australia on December 8, 2005. Version 1.1 of Wild World for Japan and North America was created on February 10, 2006.[3] Players in Europe had to wait until March 31, 2006 for the European release. It was rereleased in Japan with copies of Animal Forest.

On November 20, 2015, Wild World was made available on the Wii U Virtual Console service in Europe; on July 27, 2016 in Japan and on October 13, 2016 in North America. Online and multiplayer features are not available on this platform, although the requirement for a friend to visit to upgrade Tom Nook's shop to Nookington's was dropped.

Following in the footsteps of the popular GameCube original, the player starts out as a human in a town with no Bells. The player mortgage a small house from the local shopkeeper, the Tanuki (or raccoon in the English version) Tom Nook. Paying off a loan results in a larger house. Unlike the original Animal Crossing, where each player lives in one of four houses in a single estate, all players live together in one house.  

The interface of Wild World, with the date and hour in the bottom-right corner
Many players will want a bigger house, because decorating their house in their way, with furniture and other items, is one of the main features of the game. The player can collect fruit, fish, insects, paintings, fossils, furniture, and other items. There are over 550 different pieces of furniture. Once the player has some furniture, taking it to their house is easy; the furniture becomes a leaf that fits in their pocket. They can also customize themselves by buying clothes, accessories, hats, or drawing patterns.

Outside the house, the player can befriend the animal neighbors; the animals are much more interactive in this game than they were in the GameCube game. Villagers can still ask the players to do errands for them, but there is no longer an explicit menu item to request them, and they no longer require the player to find a missing item from a long chain of animals. Animals can also give the player their picture of themselves, with a unique quote on the back that is one's picture to keep, even after they move away.

The player can also customize their town by planting trees and growing flowers. At the museum, the player can donate certain items to the collections. At the tailor's, the player can buy clothes or draw their own patterns. This way, the player can customize their town.

Furthermore, if animals are not enough, the player can invite up to three human friends to their town using the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection or DS to DS. The Nintendo Wi-Fi connection was shut down in 2014 making DS to DS connection the only way to play with other players, aside from 3rd-party modifications. 

