Animal Crossing: New Leaf

Nintendo EAD



Animal Crossing: New Leaf
とびだせ どうぶつの森 Tobidase Dōbutsu no Mori










North American box art




Developer
Nintendo EAD


Publisher
Nintendo



Platforms
Nintendo 3DS


Release date
Original release November 8th, 2012  February 7th, 2013 June 9th, 2013 June 14th, 2013 June 15th, 2013Nintendo Selects August 26th, 2016Happy Price Selection March 17th, 2016Welcome amiibo November 23rd, 2016 November 25th, 2016 December 2nd, 2016


Genre
Life simulation


Ratings
Cero ASouth Korea A PEGI 3+ESRB E+ClassInd L


Website
AU, UK, US, JP


https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/wiki/File:001_-_Animal_Crossing_New_Leaf_(3DS)_-_Main_Theme.ogg


Animal Crossing: New Leaf (とびだせ どうぶつの森 Tobidase Dōbutsu no Mori?, Animal Forest: Jump Out), known as Animal Forest: Pop Out (튀어나와요 동물의숲, Twieonawayo Dongmul-ui Sup) in South Korea, is a life simulation video game released in 2012 for the Nintendo 3DS. The player takes on the role of mayor of a new town, and with the help of the townsfolk and Isabelle, an eager secretary, it will be their job to make the town a better place to live. 

Compared to previous installments, New Leaf's aesthetics are more realistic, with more human-proportioned characters and more realistic flora. New Leaf introduces the most new features since Animal Forest e+.

On November 2nd, 2016, an updated version of the game, Welcome amiibo, was released. This update can be applied to the original New Leaf through the Nintendo eShop. All newly published copies of New Leaf contain the Welcome amiibo update pre-installed, which is signified by a banner under the logo on the front cover of the case.

In New Leaf, the player lives in a town consisting of between 4-10 animal villagers. The first player is the mayor, whose job is to run and develop the town. During initial gameplay, Isabelle guides the player to the basics of the game, introducing them to the town in addition to giving tips on outdoor tasks such as catching creatures or planting trees. In town, the citizens pay in a currency called bells, which buys tools, furniture, and certain services. As the player earns more income in bells, they can develop further town developments, unlocking new buildings and accessing further gameplay.

When you start the game, you will be in a train. A cat named Rover will ask if he can sit with you. No matter what you say (Have a seat! or Go away, kitty!) he'll sit down with you. Rover will ask questions like...

When you arrive in town, the Speaker (Porter) Will Say...

Now arriving in (Your Town), (Your Town) Station!

When you walk out of the station, A yellow dog (Isabelle) and three residents of your town will be waiting outside. They'll start whispering. You argue with the dog, and keep saying your not the Mayor.

When you get to the Town Hall, Isabelle will make you go to Nook's Homes, which is on Main Street. When you get to Nook's Homes, The Owner (Tom Nook) will notice you. You say yes to you know where you want your house. When you choose where you want your house, Tom Nook will reserve the space for you. But then he'll say that you need a place to rest your head. He will give you the tent. Once you pay the down payment of 10,000 Bells, you'll be able to move in your house the next day.

After you go to Nooks Homes & choose a place for your house, you must report back to Isabelle at the Town Hall. Isabelle will ask... "Did you find a spot to call home?" The choices for you are...

Isabelle will give different answers for each answer you gave. After that, she will want you to go to the plaza.

When Isabelle leads you to the plaza, you & her will be in the middle of it, in the dirt. All your villagers will be standing in the plaza. It is a ceremony where you plant the tree. Once you plant the tree, Isabelle will say... "I hope this tree grows just as strong & lively as (your town) does!" That's the key to getting the tree to grow. Do more in your town.

The game was originally unveiled at E3 2010, though very little was shown. A trailer was shown featuring updated features, and few new features. Shortly after, there was news that the player could be the mayor of the town, with the goal being to make the town a better place to live. A non-playable demo was also available on the show floor at Nintendo's booth as an example of 3D effects.

The logo, as seen during E3 2011
At E3 2011 during Nintendo's press conference, the Animal Crossing logo among others, appeared on-screen as a list of upcoming 3DS games. Additionally, a new trailer was released. The trailer showed off a new feature in the game: swimming and diving in the ocean. A player was shown changing not only his shirt, but also his shoes and pants. A male player was also shown coming out of what appeared to be his tent-house. Throughout the town, benches and a beehive were shown, with a villager and later a player sitting on the bench. Isabelle was also introduced as the 'eager secretary' that helps the player throughout the game.

Celebration of a newly completed Public Works project
The town is now more customizable than ever before. The player has more power to choose which town to live in, by being given 4 random pre-set towns when starting the game. Once a town has been chosen, the player can determine the locations to build new buildings and features, set Town Ordinances and construct public works projects.

There are many projects available, including the return of the Police Station and the camp site that was last seen in Animal Crossing. It allows non-resident villagers to visit, who can then be encouraged to move in. Returning features include bridges or return of Animal Island. New features include benches for villagers and the player to sit on.

A map of fully upgraded Main Street
Player characters are taller than previous installments, allowing for customization of pants, shorts, and skirts purchased from the Able Sisters shop. Shoes and socks can also be purchased from the Kicks store in different colors and varieties.

Villagers are now more diverse. Not only are there new characters, bringing the total up to 335, but also new hamster and deer species. Two new personalities have been introduced: smug and sisterly. Villagers that have moved out can also visit the Main Street. 

Each personality of villagers now has their own pitch of Animalese, before the variants were limited to male, female, and cranky male. The pitch of normal and lazy villagers sound very similar to the generic male and female voices in previous games. Peppy villagers use the voice that was once reserved for the female villagers' voice in Wild World. Likewise, jock villagers sound like lazy villagers, but are a bit high-pitched. Snooty villagers use the voice that was once reserved for Joan. Cranky villagers sound exactly the same as they do in City Folk. Smug villagers sound like Lazy villagers, but slightly low-pitched. Sisterly villagers sound like Snooty villagers, but a bit higher-pitched.

There are 72 bugs and fish in the game, up from 60 in City Folk. The player can sneak up on bugs with the net, a returning feature from the Nintendo GameCube games. It is now possible to store bugs and fish in closets and dressers.

New Leaf adds a new class of collectables to the series: deep-sea catches. These are obtained by donning a wetsuit and swimming in the ocean. Small shadows will move across the sea floor, and the player can dive down and grab creatures from these shadows.

With New Leaf comes the return of Wi-Fi play. Much like the previous installments, this allowed players to visit other player's towns, and have other players visit their own. Unlike the previous installments, the Wi-Fi for this game has not been shut down. This means that players may still play together if they so wish. Wi-fi is also necessary for using the Dream Suite.

The New Leaf bundle (US version)
New Leaf was released in Japan on November 8th 2012, in South Korea on February 7th 2013 and in North America on June 9th 2013. It came out in Europe on June 14th 2013. Both Australia and New Zealand shared the same release date of June 15th 2013. New Leaf is also the first in the series available through the Nintendo eShop.

Promotional figures
A Nintendo 3DS XL promotional bundle featuring New Leaf was made available during the game's launch. It comes with New Leaf preinstalled onto the system. If preordered from certain retailers, plastic figures of Isabelle and the Town Hall were given as freebies.

New Leaf has received very positive reviews from critics. It has an average score of 88/100 on Metacritic, and thus rated as the 15th highest Nintendo 3DS game on Metacritic. 

The game is the first 3DS title to sell over 3 million copies in Japan alone. As of December 31st, 2013, New Leaf has worldwide sales of 100 million copies, making it the 5th best-selling game on the Nintendo 3DS.

On November 2nd, 2016, an update was released worldwide for New Leaf which introduces amiibo compatibility and various other features.

The update is available to download digitally via the Nintendo eShop or through selecting "Update data" on the title screen. It is also available as part of a physical bundle with the new Animal Crossing amiibo update pre-installed. You can use amiibo figures or cards. They also changed the name on the eShop to Animal Crossing: New Leaf: Welcome Amiibo.

