Ant

Formica sp.





Ant
アリ Ari









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
#34
#46
#25
#27
#30
–
#69







Location
Price


Candy, Spoiled Turnips, Rotten Fruit
80 Bells




Size
Available in rain


5 mm
YesNo (NH)




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Formica sp.


Family
Formicidae- Ants



Appearances
AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The ant (アリ, Ari?) is a bug in the Animal Crossing series that can be found at all times of day, throughout the entire year. Their method of capture is the same in all games: place a spoiled food item (depending on the game, these items may or may not include spoiled turnips, rotten fruit, and dropped candy) on an area of ground that is clear of any other items, and wait for ants to spawn on it. Ants can be easily caught as they do not flee unless the item they are swarming is picked up. Despite the presence of a large group, only one individual can be caught at a time, similar to a wasp and wharf roach.

When donated to the museum, Blathers will say:

"I wonder, how do you think that ants manage to search out their food? Because the question really confounds me! I mean, really. Come now. If ants were our size, the area they traverse in their search for sustenance...would FAR exceed the entire size of our fair village. Can you imagine it, wot? Hiking that far for a snack? What is going on in their tiny little ant-minds, hm? Do they have some specific target in mind? Could it be they're just wandering about aimlessly? Hoo-rrrumph! Ridiculous and revolting!"

In the bug exhibit, the ants will form a trail in the back of the display, between the trees.

When donating, Blathers will say:

"Tell me, did you know that ants leave scent everywhere they trundle about? Indeed, they do this in order to make sure they can get back to their nest. But from just WHERE on the ant does this stench come from? Blech. I'd rather not know..."

Once donated in Wild World, a trail of ants can be found marching amongst the trees to the left of the second room of the insect exhibit.

"Most people seem to regard ants as peaceful creatures, but the truth is that they're quite savage insects, wot? Indeed, when I was but a fledgling, I once sat on an ant nest by accident. The wretched things set upon me within moments. My poor tail feathers took forever to grow back."

In City Folk, ants form a trail along the path on the central terrace of the insect exhibit. The ants emerge from a hole in the wall and swarm over a pile of sugar that lies on the path some way away.

Like City Folk, a trail of ants will be found traveling from a hole on the ground to a mound of sugar. The description plate in the museum will say the following:

"Ants are small but very powerful and are able to carry items far heavier than they are. In the nest, there is a queen and also worker ants, making them somewhat similar to bees. In some habitats, ants actually make up between 15-20% of the area's total terrestrial-animal biomass."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The ant itself is the strongest creature in the world in relation to its size. One of these diminutive fiends can carry 50 times its own bodyweight! And if it wants to lift something even larger... Why, it simply calls on its friends to join the effort. Creepy cooperation, I say..."



「アリを　つかまえた！ てごたえアリ！」 —Animal Forest 
「アリを　捕まえた！　手ごたえアリ！」 —City Folk 
「アリを　つかまえた！　手ごたえアリ！」 —New Leaf 







A real ant
Ants, from the family Formicidae, are insects that have existed for at least 110 million years. They can be found all over the world. Ants are highly intelligent insects and form complicated colonies consisting of hundreds of thousands of insects each with a specific role: a worker, responsible for collecting food and defending the colony; a drone, responsible for starting new colonies; and a queen, of which there is only one per colony, responsible for reproducing.




