Arapaima

River





Arapaima
#44
ピラルク Piraruku







Location
River


Price (Nook)
10,000 Bells


Price (C.J.)
15,000 Bells


Size
118.11 in. 300 cm


Shadow size
Huge


Seasonality (N)
June to September


Seasonality (S)
December to March


Time of day
4pm to 9am


Appearances
AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The arapaima is a river fish that appears in late summer. It was not present in Animal Forest, but appeared in subsequent games, and it will only appear between the hours of 4pm and 9am. Its rarity attributes to its sell price of 10,000 Bells, being tied for second highest freshwater price with the arowana. Its shadow size is huge, and likewise it is the largest river fish. In the 'Bugs and Fish' window in City Folk, it is the last river fish, but by no means the ultimate river fish. The fish is the second largest fish in the game, after the shark at about 550 centimeters and it is tied for length with the ocean sunfish.



As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the arapaima can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"My word! I've never seen such a tremendous specimen! A fish such as this is found only once in a great while. A true rarity among rarities! Extraordinary! Top notch! This, we will treasure, I assure you. Cross my heart and hope to molt. Hoo!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"You might think a fish this big might not be appetizing, but it's simply delicious! The arapaima used to be abundant, but overfishing has sadly made them rare. One has to wonder how many species must suffer to satiate the world..."

When donated, it will be in the second tank in the first room.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"My, it is massive, isn't it? Not just large, but the largest river-dwelling fish in the world, it's said. Records indicate a specimen some 200 inches in length has been sighted before... Looking at it now, the theory that this fish hasn't changed in 100 million years seems believable!"

This fish, when donated, will appear in the middle right tank.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Arapaima, at over two yards long, are one of the largest freshwater-fish breeds in the world. They've been around for over 100 million years, making them rather ancient fish as well. They breathe through gills but also with an air bladder used by poking their mouths above water. They have hard, coarse tongues that are used to break down the smaller fish they eat."

It can be found in the large tank at the top of the room in the river section of the aquarium.

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The stately arapaima is quite large. Indeed, it is among the largest freshwater fish there are. Furthermore, these fascinating fish make quite the family unit. That is to say, male arapaimas protect their young by holding them gently in their mouths. Meanwhile, female arapaimas swim circles around these full-mouthed fathers fending off predators. It simply goes to show that cold-blooded creatures can be heartwarming too."

Once donated, it appears in the freshwater exhibit, inside the large tank on the right.









A real life arapaima
The arapaima (Arapaima gigas) is the largest freshwater fish in the world. It inhabits the Amazon River in the continent of South America. It is sometimes alternatively called the pirarucu or paiche. The fish can grow to a maximum length of around three meters (ten feet). The male of the species is a mouthbrooder like the arowana, meaning the young are protected in its mouth until they are older. The female arapaima helps to protect the male and the young by circling around them to keep them from straying and fending off potential predators. Their red coloration comes from their diet of crustaceans.




