Arowana

River





Arowana
#41
アロワナ Arowana







Location
River


Price
6,000 Bells (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
10,000 Bells


Price (C.J.)
15,000 Bells


Size
27.25 in. 70 cm


Shadow size
Large


Seasonality (N)
June to September


Seasonality (S)
December to March


Time of day
4am-9am, 4pm-9pm (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW), 4pm-9am (CF, NL, NH)


Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The arowana is a golden fish that can be found in the river, and has been present in every single Animal Crossing series game. It is a rare summer fish that sells for 10,000 Bells, the same as the arapaima. It is found between 4pm and 9am, between the months of June and September. Prior to Wild World, its shadow size was medium.



「アロワナが　つれた！　きんピカで、ゴージャス！！　たかくうれるかなぁ？」 —Animal Forest 
「アロワナが　釣れた！　金ピカで、ゴージャス！！　高く売れるかなぁ？」 —Animal Forest e+ 

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the arowana can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Another rare fish! You, old bean, are an angler for the ages! The bards will sing your praises! Thanks to generous individuals such as yourself, player, the museum is growing by leaps and bounds. Your dragon fish has now found a home away from home. I promise, it will be very happy in its new digs!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"I've never heard of a dish made with arowana... However, I find it hard to believe they're inedible. People eat ANYTHING. Still, they're probably more profitable to sell for viewing than for eating."

It can be found in the middle tank, after donating it to the museum.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"...It's said that arowana have retained the same appearance for nearly 100 million years! That's far longer than people or owls have been around... Hoo, the sights they must have seen... There's a bit of mystery about them, is there not? A fitting appearance for the king of tropical fish!"

It can be found in the tank on the right, after donating it to the museum.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Arowanas are ancient fish that have remained basically unchanged for 100 million years. They are known for their large scales and the hair that sticks out from their lower lips. They have a remarkable jumping ability and can leap over a yard above the surface of the water. Males protect their babies by keeping them in their mouths and releasing them once they reach a certain size."

It can be found in the large tank at the top of the room in the river section of the aquarium.

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"It would seem your angling expertise knows no bounds! This beauteous arowana fetches a pretty Bell, though I'd venture to say that its true price is beyond measure. The arowana is an excellent jumper. Some have been seen leaping six feet out of the water, eh wot! Alas, it has also been on the endangered-species list for some time. It's up to us to do all we can to help preserve such magnificent creatures for the years to come."









A real-life arowana.
The Asian arowana (Scleropages legendrei) is a fish that can be found in the waters of Malaysia and Indonesia. Unusually for fish, the arowana is capable of breathing air using a specialized swim bladder. It is carnivorous and is capable of jumping remarkably high out of the surface of the water to catch insects and birds on the branches nearby.




