Atlas moth

Attacus atlas





Atlas Moth
ヨナグニサン Yonagunisan









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
#14







Location
Price


On treesOn palm trees
3000 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


Unknown
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


April to September (NH, north)October to March (NH, south)
7pm to 4am



Scientific name
Attacus atlas


Family
Saturniidae



Appearances
NH, PC


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)




The Atlas moth is a large moth that first appeared in New Horizons. It can be found on trees at night during spring, summer, and early fall.

Unlike other butterflies and moths, the Atlas moth does not fly, but instead rests on trees. Therefore it is obtained solely by approaching it slowly, similar to the many summertime beetles and cicadas. If approached too quickly, it will fly away.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The Atlas moth is a monstrous thing! Not only is it one of the largest moths in the world... The tips of its wings look rather like the heads of venomous snakes! Despite its largeness and loathsome looks, the adult Atlas moth lives only for a few days. It emerges from its cocoon without a mouth, you see...and so cannot eat. I feel for the poor thing...but it is still foul!"

The Atlas moth can be found resting on the small tree closest to the large tree. During the day it sits in the middle, while at night it moves to the top of the tree.





By Quartl - Own work, CC BY-SA 3.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=15214645
By Maghdp - Own work, CC BY-SA 4.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=63807932
The Atlas moth is one of the largest lepidopterans with a wingspan measuring up to 24 cm (9.4 in) and a wing surface area of about 160 cm2 (~25 in2). It is only surpassed in wingspan by the white witch (Thysania agrippina) and in wing surface area by the Hercules moth (Coscinocera hercules). As in most Lepidoptera, females are noticeably larger and heavier than males, while males have broader antennae.

The body is disproportionately small compared to the wings. The upper side of the wings are reddish-brown with a pattern of black, white, pink, and purple lines and triangular, scale-less windows bordered in black. The undersides of the wings are paler. Both forewings have a prominent extension at the top.

The atlas moth has no mouth, every flight takes valuable energy and can take days off their already short lives, as it has a very short life span of only one to two weeks. They conserve energy by flying as little as possible. A female will wait for a male to come along and be fertilized, lay eggs and die.



