Automatic Bell Dispenser

N/A

The Automatic Bell Dispenser (Bellpoint in PAL games, commonly referred to as the ABD) is a machine similar to an ATM (automatic teller machine, or cash machine). It allows the player to access their savings, allowing them to pay Bells to Tom Nook's bank account to pay off their house mortgage, withdraw and deposit Bells in their savings account, or reissue a shopping card. 0.5% (0.05% in New Horizons) interest is deposited into the player's savings on the first of each month. The ABD was first added in City Folk, and has appeared in all main series games since then.

In City Folk and New Leaf, the ABD was operated by the Bank of Nintendo. However, in New Horizons, the deserted island's ABD is operated by the Bank of Nook.

A player using the ABD.
An ABD is located in the Town Hall near the Civic Center window. In the City, the ABD is located near the Marquee. This ABD machine is for the main branch of the bank rather than the town branch of the bank. There is no functional difference between the Town Hall ABD. An ABD furniture item is obtainable by depositing 999,999,999 Bells into the savings account. This is also the maximum amount possible. 

After depositing a certain number of Bells in the bank, the player will receive a letter, attached with a present containing a reward. This replaces the donations to Boondox, which was how the feather accessories were obtained in Wild World.

An ABD is located in the Post Office. There is also an ABD inside the shack on Tortimer Island. The player can obtain an ABD furniture item by depositing 100,000,000 Bells in the bank. In addition, some Welcome amiibo villagers, such as Gonzo, have an ABD in their RVs, making it easier to obtain. The Japanese-exclusive downloadable content 7-Eleven Series had an ABD item that was available to download from 7-Eleven stores with access to a Nintendo Zone between April 26th and May 9th, 2013.

Similarly to City Folk, depositing certain amounts of money in the ABD will allow the player to receive rewards. These rewards arrive in the post in a present.

The ABD interface in New Horizons.
The ABD functionality is included in the Nook Stop located in Resident Services. Unlike previous titles, depositing certain sums of money into the account does not reward the player with items. It is not possible to use the ABD whilst visiting another player's island.

Prior to version 1.2.0, the interest rate was 0.5%; this was slashed to 0.05% after this update, a move which was noted by real world publications, including financial newspapers.[1][2] When this update was released, Tom Nook wrote to the player, apologising for the inconvenience, and offering the bell-bag rug in compensation.

