Bagworm

Eumeta japonica





Bagworm
ミノムシ Minomushi









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
#40
#37
–
#37
#41
–
#68







Location
Price


In trees
250 Bells (AC, AFe+)300 Bells (CF, NL)600 bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


50 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


October to March (AC, AFe+) October to February (CF, NL)All year (NH)
All day5pm to 8am (CF in Oct)



Scientific name
Eumeta japonica


Family
Psychidae- Bagworm moths



Appearances
AF+, AC, AFe+, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The bagworm is an uncommon bug that first appeared in Animal Crossing. It appears throughout autumn and winter, and can be shaken out of trees. In GCN games villagers will look up into trees that hold bagworms, giving away their location.

On shaking the tree, bagworms will drop from a strand of silk and hang in the air. In City Folk and New Leaf, bagworms will eventually retreat back into the tree after several seconds if it is not immediately caught; the tree can be shaken again, and the bagworm will drop down again. It is the winter equivalent of the spider. Bagworms do not appear in fruit trees in any games except for New Leaf and New Horizons, but can sometimes be found in trees that contain items if that tree is shaken a second time after the item falls out.

If a bagworm is released, the casing bounces to the ground and disappears. In Animal Crossing, it slides along the floor like the spider.



「みのむしを　捕まえた！　その服、あったかそー！」 —Animal Forest e+ 
「ミノムシを　捕まえた！　その服、あったかそー！」 —City Folk 
「ミノムシを　つかまえた！　その服、あったかそー！」 —New Leaf 

Blathers will make this rather lengthy quote when it is presented to him:

The bagworm is not a worm per se, but rather any moth of the family Psychidae while in its caterpillar phase. Bagworms construct their cocoons by cutting leaves or branches to the length of their own bodies. Next, they hang these leaves or branches on shrubs or trees and spin their cocoons around them. Fascinating! Interestingly enough, only males of the species become moths. Females spend the rest of their lives in the cocoons. The black, furry males fly from cocoon to cocoon, leaving the females to lay 500 or so eggs, then die. Just imagine it! 500 or more eggs! And then they die! That's not very sporting, if you ask me. Not at all! I can't see any female owls standing for that nonsense. My dear old mum would have given my dad an earful, wot! In any case, where was I? Ah, yes. Bagworms, bagworms. Quite the pests, they are... Voracious in the extreme! An infestation of bagworms can defoliate entire trees in surprisingly rapid fashion. Gluttonous monsters! This is particularly harmful, sometimes fatally so, in evergreens, whose needles are never replaced. Hundreds and hundreds of bagworms...eating and eating...stuffing their bug-gullets... Bleech! Wretched villains!

When donated it can be found in the bottom left hanging from the left side of the tree in the grasshopper exhibit.

Blathers will say this after taking the bagworm from the player:

"In time, a bagworm transforms into a bagworm moth, eh wot? The bagworm's casing is really rather unfashionable, bordering on hideous. Ah, but by sticking wool threads into the bagworm's casing, you can make a little 100%-wool coat for it! Of course, that would be mad. And inside that wool coat would be a big moth, which no one needs..."

Once donated, bagworms can be found in the upper left corner of the bug room in the museum, hanging from a tree.

After donating, the museum sign will read:

"Bagworms are certain moths in caterpillar phase. They stay in cases or cocoons for warmth in winter. They construct their cases by sticking silk threads together between leaves or branches. Females don't have wings, and some simply wait inside their cocoons for males to come by to mate."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The bagworm is, in fact, not a worm at all, but a caterpillar instead. The filthy fraud uses silk and leaves to spin a cozy bag for it to hide inside - hence the name. Some find it cute the way bagworms dangle from trees. But the truth is they're gluttonous monsters. These beasts love to stuff their bug-gullets full of leaves, devouring the very trees they hang upon. (Wretched villains is what they are.)"





A real-world bagworm case.
Bagworms are the larvae of various species of moth that all build cocoons from environmental elements such as lichen, plant material, and sometimes silk. They measure from one to fifteen centimeters. Bagworms can be found around the world—there are around 600 known species. The casing of the bagworm serves to protect and camouflage the larvae until it emerges as a moth.




