Barred knifejaw

Oplegnathus fasciatus





Barred knifejaw
イシダイ Ishidai










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
#39
#39
#40
#43
#48
#53
#58







Location
Price


Ocean, Tropical Seas
5,000 Bells7,500 if sold to C.J.4,000 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


27.75 in. 70 cm
Large (AC), Medium (WW, CF, NL, NH)




Time of year
Time of day


March to November (north)September to May (south)
All day



Scientific name
Oplegnathus fasciatus


Family
Oplegnathidae - Beakfish and knifejaws



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The barred knifejaw, is a semi-rare fish found in the ocean and sells for 5,000 Bells at Tom Nook's store. It appears all day in spring and summer and is black with seven white stripes. Its shadow size is small/medium, around the same size as the squid, octopus, pufferfish and dab. The fish, along with all other ocean fish, appears in the back tank when donated to the museum, and is considered to be quite a hard fish to catch, as Blathers will tell the player when they donate it.

When the player donates the fish in Animal Crossing, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo! Indeed, WOO hoo! A barred knifejaw, I believe. Hoo!  Hoo, I say!  Just look at this magnificent creature!  Truly, a king among edible aquatic beasts of the world! Tuna, scallops, oysters, lobsters, salmon, halibut, crabs, barnacles... Well, maybe not barnacles... One would have to be in dire straits indeed to consume a few of those jagged beasties!"

"Now then, what say we set this chap up in his new home, eh wot?"

When the player donates it in Wild World, Blathers will say:

"<Player>, the very fact that you caught this tells me that you are quite a fisher! Oh, a recipe for barred knifejaw? I'd recommend putting it in a broth. Grilling makes the flesh rather tough, eh wot?"

When the player donates it in City Folk, Blathers will say:

"Hootie hoo, look at you! You've hauled in a star catch this time! Indeed, simply marvelous work!' The barred knifejaw is a clever fish that, it's said, requires some rather fancy fishing to catch. Their monotone color scheme certainly paints them as smart, sensible fish in my eyes, eh wot?"

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Barred knifejaws stand out thanks to the seven stripes adorning their white bodies. Their natural curiosity and strong pull make them a popular target of anglers, but they're no easy catch. They have strong teeth that allow them to make short work of sea creatures with tough shells. This means that both urchins and mollusks need to be careful, lest they become meals for these fish."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Wonderful! I would love nothing more! The barred knifejaw, also called the striped beakfish, is a lovely fish with a distinctive striped pattern. It is reportedly also a very curious fish in that it has been known to approach swimmers to "greet" them. They also tend to be good at avoiding fishing hooks, so well done on outwitting this one!"

The fish is displayed in the large tank in the back saltwater fish room.











A real-life barred knifejaw.
The striped beakfish, also known as the barred knifejaw, is a tropical fish, generally found in coral reefs and around Japan. It has been seen in Hawaii, but only once. It normally eats invertebrates.




