Bitterling

River





Bitterling
#1
タナゴ Tanago







Location
River


Price (Nook)
900 


Price (C.J.)
1,350 


Shadow size
Tiny


Seasonality (N)
November to March


Seasonality (S)
May to September


Time of day
All day


Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The bitterling is a fairly common winter fish found in all games of the Animal Crossing series. It can be found in the river all day during the months of November through March. It sells for varying prices depending on the game.



「たなごを つり上げた！きれいで カワイー！」 —Animal Forest 

「タナゴを 釣り上げた！小さくて キュート！」 —New Horizons 

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, a bitterling can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who when requested will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo! Indeed, WOO hoo! A bitterling, I believe. Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot! We will take excellent care of this fellow, oh yes. You can rest assured. Excellent care, indeed."

Upon donation, Blathers will say:

"I must say, I've never personally considered eating one of these before. It's so very...goldfishy... No, not particularly tasty-looking, to be sure..."

After donation, the bitterling can be found in the front tank in the first room.

Upon donation, Blathers will say:

"It's quite common for enthusiasts to keep bitterlings in the same tank as tropical fish, eh wot? Indeed, once upon a time, this fish was a popular choice for the private fishing ponds of the rich!"

It can be found swimming around in the middle-left tank in the aquarium after donation.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

These fish are so small, they can fit their entire body in the palm of your hand. During mating season, the male's belly turns a light orange in order to properly attract a mate. They live in rivers and lakes and deposit eggs in large bivalves where the eggs hatch and live for a while.

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers will say:

"Bitterlings hide their eggs inside large bivalves—like clams—where the young can stay safe until grown. The bitterling isn't being sneaky. No, their young help keep the bivalve healthy by eating invading parasites! It's a wonderful bit of evolutionary deal making, don't you think? Each one keeping the other safe... Though eating parasites does not sound like a happy childhood... Is that why the fish is so bitter?"









Real bitterlings
The Japanese Rosy Bitterling (Rhodeus ocellatus/smithii) is found in ponds and inland rivers throughout Japan. It is omnivorous, feeding on small aquatic insects and crustaceans and algae. It is an oviparous breeder from March to September. This fish is unfortunately classed as Critically Endangered but numbers are on the rise as this specific bitterling has been cross-bred with another bitterling species.




