Black bass

River





Black bass
#22
ブラックバス Burakku-basu







Location
River


Price
100  (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
400 


Price (C.J.)
600 


Size
22.75 in. 60 cm


Shadow size
Large


Seasonality (N)
All year


Seasonality (S)
All year


Time of day
All day


Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Common (★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The Black bass is a common fish found in rivers that appears in all games. It appears year round, all day and sells for 300 Bells. Despite the name, the black bass is not actually black at all, but a dark sheen of green. It is a member of the bass family.

Prior to Wild World, the black bass was split into three fish including itself. The other two were the small bass and the large bass. It, the large bass, and the small bass make up the only species in Animal Crossing series that classifies as multiple different fish.



「ふつうのバスを　つりあげた！　まあまあ　かなー。」 —Animal Forest 

「ブラックバスを　釣り上げた！　何センチ？　何センチ？」 —City Folk and New Leaf

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the black bass can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"This is one of those fish that seem to mysteriously disappear from time to time. Drives fishermen batty, wot! Have no fear, dear friend! You're leaving this beauty in very good wings, hmmm? Hoo! Owl humor. Hoo hoo!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"In sport-fishing, the black bass is very often the main quarry... It's apparently a delicious fish, so I'd imagine some sport-cooking fellows! Indeed, I suppose they would call that a catch-and-eat program! Hoo hoo!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"The black bass sports tremendous strength for its size, making it a popular catch in sportfishing. The bass is so popular that there are even fishermen who specialize exclusively in catching bass, eh wot? There are concerns about the effect of fishing on its habitat...but even so, this fish remains a favorite."

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"They get their name from their somewhat blackish bodies, though they have a green tint. They usually hide in weeds and wait until other fish approach before forcefully striking. Many people use lures to catch black bass because they are such strong fish. Black bass have a fierce image, as the males will scare off other fish to protect the fry in the nest. They are related to sea bass, so they make for a tasty dinner, though their skin has a very strong odor."

It can be found in the large tank at the top of the room in the river section of the aquarium.

"The black bass is a formidably strong fish and, as such, is a common target for sport anglers. In some areas, there are even those who professionally catch just black bass! Yet in other areas where they are NOT native, they are considered an ecological nuisance. Invasive, even. One cannot help but wonder who is to blame for their invasion, hoo."

The black bass is displayed in the center tank of the first freshwater fish room.









A real-life black bass.
The largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), originating from the United States of America, is the state fish of the states of Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, Florida, and Tennessee as a result of its status as a sport fish. Bass has been featured in many fishing games, most of which are entirely dedicated to the largemouth bass itself, although some games include the smallmouth and other American sport fish. The largemouth is also the largest of the black bass, and the biggest fish on record was a 75cm (29.5 inches) adult from Lake Escondido.




