Blowfish

Takifugu rubripes





Blowfish
フグ Fugu










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
#50
#54







Location
Price


Ocean
5,000 Bells7,500 Bells if sold to C.J.




Size
Shadow size


10 in. 25 cm
Medium




Time of year
Time of day


November to February
9pm to 4am



Scientific name
Takifugu rubripes


Family
Tetraodontidae



Appearances
NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)


Information correct as of NH



7,500 Bells if sold to C.J.
The blowfish is a fish that was introduced in New Leaf. It is a winter relative to the puffer fish.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Blowfish are considered a delicacy, famous for their tempting taste despite being highly poisonous. Blowfish are not poisonous at birth, though, which makes young ones relatively safe for consumption. It's only once they have ingested enough microbes from seawater and food that they become poisonous. When they feel threatened, they suck in air and water to blow themselves up like balloons. This makes them too big to eat without predators being horsed to chomp down on their poison quills."

In New Horizons, Blathers will tell you the following about the blowfish upon donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me about this!":

"As you may know, blowfish carry a deadly poison and are among the most toxic creatures on earth. What you may not have known is that poison and spines are not the limit of this animal's defenses! A predator that tried to swallow a blowfish before it inflates can find itself quickly choking. To be honest, if said predator can get past poison, spines, AND choking hazards, I feel they've earned a meal."







Animal Crossing's blowfish represents the species Takifugu rubripes in real life, where it is often called the tiger puffer or Japanese puffer (torafugu 虎河豚). The name blowfish (and the Japanese in-game name fugu (フグ) is a generic name for any species of puffer fish. It is notable as the second vertebrate to have its genome sequenced. The scientific name refers to the four large teeth, fused into an upper and lower plate, which are used for crushing the shells of crustaceans and mollusks, their natural prey. (further information)



