Bluegill

River





Bluegill
#20
ブルーギル Buruugiru







Location
River


Price
10 Bells (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
120 Bells


Price (C.J.)
180 Bells


Size
11,85 in. 26 cm


Shadow size
Small


Seasonality (N)
All year


Seasonality (S)
All year


Time of day
9 am to 4 pm


Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The bluegill is a common fish found in the river. Despite being uncommon at most times of the year it sells for the second lowest amount for any fish at 120 Bells, losing only to the jellyfish and tying with the crucian carp and frog. It is particularly common in September, especially in Animal Crossing.



In Pocket Camp, the bluegill can be found in Lost Lure Creek and can be sold for 10 Bells.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the bluegill can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot! We will take excellent care of this fellow, oh yes. You can rest assured. Excellent care, indeed."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Bluegills are a type of whitefish and they are most definitely edible, wot! Even so, I would avoid the skinny ones. They look rather full of bones..."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"...Ah, hoo, the bluegill, scourge of fishermen everywhere. Once introduced to an area, this fish will eat up many of the indigenous breeds, eh wot? But with a face like that, it's hard to believe our wee fishy friend here has any bad intentions..."

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Bluegills have spikes on their dorsal fins to help protect them from enemies and harm. Their offspring actually have a fairly high survival rate when compared to other fish. The males chase away the females and take over protecting the eggs and babies in the nest. Although bluegills are small, they are actually related quite closely to black bass."

It can be found in the large tank at the top of the room in the river section of the aquarium.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"The bluegill is incredibly common. A bit too common, depending upon where you are. They eat anything that fits in their mouths and are highly adaptable. The bane of fishermen in some areas, bluegill is often the only fish to be caught! But looking in its wee beady eyes, I must say I see no ill will in it..."

When given to Chip he says:

When given to Chip he says:









A real life bluegill
One of the so-called freshwater sunfish, the most notable feature of the bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) is the blue or black "ear", actually an extension of the gill cover called the opercular flap. Its name, however, comes from the bright blue edging visible on its gill rakers. In real life they are dark greenish, very unlike the purple seen in Animal Crossing. This color mix-up is also seen in early versions of the pale chub. Also called the bream, this fish tastes nice. It is very common and often fished. Catfish, bass, and turtles prey on the bluegill.




