Blue marlin

Makaira nigricans





Blue marlin
力ジキ Kajiki










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
#47
#52
#59
#63
#67







Location
Price


Pier (NH)Tropical Seas (AFe+)Ocean (WW, CF, NL, PC)
10,000 Bells4,000 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


78.95 in. 2.5 m
Huge




Time of year
Time of day


July to SeptemberNovember to April (NH only)
All day



Scientific name
Makaira nigricans


Family
Makaira - the marlins and spearfish



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The blue marlin known as the swordfish in Animal Forest e+, is a scarce fish in the Animal Crossing series. In Animal Forest e+, it is only seen in the sea around the Private Island, where it makes occasional appearances as an arapaima-sized shadow. However, due to the currents of the island, some are impossible to catch as they are too far out to reach. In New Horizons, it spawns near the pier instead. The fish can be found all day and has a huge size.

When placed in the museum in all games, the fish can be found swimming back and forth in the ocean tank.

After donation, Blathers will say:

"To be honest, this is the first time that I've seen a proper blue marlin, wot wot! As you can see, its bill is quite dangerous. Every year people are injured by them. Still, how can one complain? If you were to drag me out of the museum one night... I assure you I would give you a pecking you'd not soon forget, hoo!"

Blathers will talk about the blue marlin when donated:

"Hootie hoo, what a magnificent fish! Look at that sleek, hornlike bill! This fish is quite fast, said to be capable of reaching speeds of up to 62 miles per hour... A regular oceanic speed demon, wot? If you get in its way, beware! It might not be able to stop in time!"

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Blue marlins are famous for their long, swordlike noses that give them the nickname "swordfish." They use their "swords" to knock out their prey before capture, not skewering it as you'd think. Able to swim as speeds above 60 mph, their speed and power make them a true test for any angler."

Upon donation or selecting "tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The blue marlin has a distinctive angular shape and no scales. It is an unusual relative of the tuna. These mighty fish can exceed 13 feet from bill to tail. Some accounts even have it fighting with whales! No wonder it's a popular target for sport fishing: unlike most fish, it seems like a worthy opponent."



「力ジキマグロを　釣り上げた! ちよー　大物だ!!」 —Animal Forest e+ 











A real-life marlin.
The Atlantic blue marlin is a species of marlin native to the Atlantic Ocean. It uses its long, sharp bill to injure or kill its prey, which mainly includes schools of small fish. Marlin, a popular game fish, is also commercially viable due to its high fat content. The marlin is the national fish of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas and is featured on its Coat of Arms.




