Bug





Bug





Type
Museum collectable


Stackable
No


Availability
Outside



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/wiki/File:NH-BGM_Demo_GetFanfare.ogg


Bugs are collectable items in the Animal Crossing series. Players can catch them with a net. They can be donated to the museum, sold to Tom Nook, or placed in the player's home inside a Bug Cage, like a piece of furniture. Most of them are worth a lot less than most fish at Tom Nook's store. A large amount of bugs will only emerge during the Summer, a few unique species emerge in Autumn and Spring, and there are very few during the Winter.

List of bugs in Animal Forest: Bugs (Animal Forest)

In the original N64 Animal Forest, there are 32 species obtainable.

List of bugs in Animal Crossing: Bugs (Animal Crossing)

In the Japanese Animal Forest+ and its English counterpart Animal Crossing, there are 40 species obtainable, adding 8 bugs to the game. Pondskater, Ant, Pill Bug, Mosquito, Mole Cricket, Spider, Snail, and Bagworm are new to the game.

List of bugs in Animal Forest e+: Bugs (Animal Forest e+)

In the Japanese-only game, Animal Forest e+ an extra 8 species are added, making a total of 48 bugs obtainable.The new species include the Birdwing Butterfly, Hercules Beetle, Flea, Diving Beetle, Crab, Hermit Crab, Coconut Crab, and Dung Beetle.

List of bugs in Wild World: Bugs (Wild World)

In Wild World a total of 56 bugs are obtainable, with many added and many dropped. Dropped bugs from Animal Forest e+ and GCN games include Purple Butterfly, Common Dragonfly, Pine Cricket, Ladybug (GCN), Drone Beetle, Mountain Beetle, Bagworm, Diving Beetle, Crab, Hermit Crab, and Coconut Crab. New bugs include Peacock Butterfly, Monarch Butterfly, Emperor Butterfly, Agrias Butterfly, Moth, Oak Silk Moth, Honeybee, Orchid Mantis, Lantern Fly, Walking Stick, Fruit Beetle, Scarab Beetle, Rainbow Stag, Atlas Beetle, Elephant Beetle, Goliath Beetle, Fly, Scorpion, and Tarantula.

List of bugs in City Folk: Bugs (City Folk)

In City Folk, a total of 64 bugs are obtainable. Dropped bugs include Cockroach and (Flat) Stag Beetle. New bugs include Raja Brooke Butterfly, Giant Petaltail, Walking Leaf, Violin Beetle, Cyclommatus, Golden Stag, and Centipede. Returned bugs include Diving Beetle, Bagworm, and Miyama Stag (Formerly called Mountain Beetle).

List of bugs in New Leaf: Bugs (New Leaf)

In New Leaf, a total of 72 bugs are obtainable, adding 8 new bugs. New bugs include Rice Grasshopper, Giant Cicada, Cicada Shell, Stinkbug, Tiger Beetle, Wharf Roach, and House Centipede. Returned bugs include the Hermit Crab.

List of bugs in New Horizons: Bugs (New Horizons)

In New Horizons, a total of 80 bugs are obtainable. Dropped bugs include House centipede, Petaltail dragonfly, Lantern fly, and Fruit beetle. New bugs include Common bluebottle, Paper kite butterfly, Madagascan sunset moth, Damselfly, Giant water bug, Man-faced stink bug, Rosalia batesi beetle, Blue weevil beetle, Earth-boring dung beetle, and Giraffe stag. Returned bugs include Great purple emperor (formerly called Purple butterfly) and Drone beetle.

When the player catches all the types of bugs, Tortimer will appear outside the player's house the next day and award them with a Golden Net.

In Animal Crossing, he will say this to the player:

"I've been a-waiting for you, player. Word is that you've been catching bugs... Those tiny little monsters... You likely had no idea at the time, but when you caught every last kind of insect we know of in these parts... You became the most famous bug-catching-person in the history of <Town>! Hurrah for you, sprout! To commemorate such a wild and woolly occasion, I'd like you to have this fine Golden Net. I suppose now that you're a big, famous bug-catcher you may not need it... ...But this is the kind of net that really makes a difference when you're having trouble catching butterflies. Yepper! Treat 'er with care, sprout! You won't be getting one anywhere else, and there's no replacing it, you know... Yepper, chasing bugs is good, but I'm partial to chasing Zs. Oooh... Looks like a tough crowd out there today..."

Here are all of the bugs in the mainline series based on appearances.

Horned atlas(as of NH)

Wasp(as of NH)

Horned dynastid(as of NL)

Giant Stag(as of NL)

Horned hercules(as of NL)

Ladybug(as of WW)

Citrus long-horned beetle(as of NH)

Atlas moth(as of NH)

Great purple emperor(as of NH)

Rajah Brooke's birdwing(as of NH)




