Bunnie

Female



Bunnie
リリアン Ririan




“Hare today, gone tomorrow.”


Gender
Female


Personality
Peppy


Species
Rabbit


Birthday
May 9th (Taurus)



Initial phrase
tee-hee みたいな (mitai na) 그렇지뭐 (geuleohjimwo) 好像喔 (hǎoxiàng ō) hé hé hé tiptap oy-oy-oy tiihii hihi хи-хи (khi-khi)


Initial clothes
Flicker Shirt AF-AFe+Lively Plaid Dress WW-NH



Home request
A perpetual birthday party. HHDA Colorful Sewing Sanctuary HHP



Skill
Staying positive


Goal
Gymnast



Coffee
Blue Mountain,Lots of milk,Three spoonfuls of sugar


Favorite song
K.K. Aria AF-NLK.K. Birthday HHDForest Life NHK.K. Stroll HHP


Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, HHD, PC, NH


“Come on! Get amped!”
― Picture quote, Wild World
Bunnie (リリアン, Ririan?, Lilian) is a peppy rabbit villager from the Animal Crossing series. Her English name comes from the type of animal she is, a bunny, as well as another English name, Bonnie. Her catchphrase is a phrase that matches her peppy personality. Her design is based on the ringo usagi, a method of cutting apples to make them look like rabbits.

She is on the back of the City Folk game box, appearing to be running. She also appears on the cover of New Horizons. She has appeared in every game to date. She appears on the album covers for Mr. K.K., K.K. Country, and Animal City. She has the fashion hobby. She appears in the Animal Crossing track for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

Bunnie in Animal Crossing
Bunnie is an orange rabbit with a creamy beige face, all of her torso until the hips, and arms that are tipped the same color as her head; her bunny tail and legs are the same color, too. Her face has pink blush and a nice, welcoming smile. Her eyelashes are styled in a pointy diamond-like way, with her eyes being mostly round, and her ears are peachy orange on the inside.

Her initial shirt in the N64 and GCN versions is a flicker shirt. She wears a jade check shirt from Wild World to Pocket Camp. In New Horizons, this changes to a jade check dress.

Peppy villagers appear to be in a good mood often and are easy to become friends with. As a peppy villager, Bunnie will have the tendency to over-react in conversations about trivial subjects, and will usually be over-excited to see the player or other villagers. This villager, like other peppy villagers, will rarely be discouraged from doing anything, including the usual hobbies. Peppy villagers dream of becoming famous in the future and read Ms. Nintendique, an unseen magazine read by snooty, normal, and other peppy villagers in the Animal Crossing series. Peppy villagers will also have a very short attention span, which means they soon forget some arguments or tasks given to the player which weren't completed. Bunnie may easily get upset in conversation when the wrong things are said. She will get along well with other villagers, particularly lazy, normal, jock, sisterly, and other peppy villagers, but she may annoy and upset cranky and snooty villagers, whose personalities differ to hers. Due to the nature of peppy villagers, she may mention how "old" or "boring" cranky villagers are compared to her opposing, upbeat personality.

From Animal Forest to City Folk, Bunnie's house has stayed mostly the same, with a few minor changes in the installments. She has many pieces from the lovely series and the regal series, such as the lovely end table, regal vanity, and lovely chair. Other furniture in the N64 and GCN games includes the Papa bear and two shirts, the red check shirt and the candy gingham tee with a lovely stereo in the back of her house.

In Wild World and City Folk, she has the Mama bear and the green bed. Her choice of flooring and wallpaper is the wood paneling on her walls and a parquet floor in all games except for New Leaf.

In New Leaf, Bunnie's house has changed drastically from the past games, with a much more modern theme and lacking furniture from the lovely series. She has different pieces of furniture that helps add a modern theme towards her house, including two regal sofas, a pine table with a Mama bear, a small and medium magazine rack, and a house plant. Other furniture in her home includes an upright piano, a conductor's stand, and a retro stereo. For her choice of flooring and wallpaper, she has the citrus wall and the flower pop carpet.

In every game until New Horizons, Bunnie has either a retro stereo or a lovely stereo (N64 and GCN) that has K.K. Aria playing on it.

In New Horizons, the exterior of her house is white with tan trim, has a yellow door and and red roof. The interior consists of a pink and purple polka dot wall and white planked flooring. Bunnie focuses on the theme of pink furniture and decorations which consists of a pink mirror, a pink bed with a plaid pink and purple cover, a dresser, magazine rack, dish rack with pink dishes, pink and red tea set, and pink mat with brown bears and a house decal. She also has a red workbench, a white stove, red boom box, an apple TV along with a dress and rug, a bulletin board, and a bunch of white wood furniture such as her wardrobe and table.

Bunnie was released with Pocket Camp on October 25, 2017.

Bunnie's preferred theme is cute, and she primarily gives wood as a reward. Her profile reads:

Friendship Level: 3



