Butterfly fish

Chaetodon auripes





Butterfly fish
チョウチョウウオ Chouchou-uo










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#43
#47
#51







Location
Price


Ocean (CF, NL), Island (NL)
1,000 Bells




Size
Shadow size


8.4 in. 20 cm
Small




Time of year
Time of day


April to September
All day



Scientific name
Chaetodon auripes


Family
Chaetodontidae - Butterflyfish



Appearances
CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The butterfly fish is a small yellow reef fish that appears in the ocean from April to September. This fish will sell for 1,000 Bells. It should not be confused with the winter sea butterfly. The butterfly fish was introduced to the Animal Crossing series in City Folk.

Upon donating the butterfly fish to the Museum, Blathers will say;

"This is a butterflyfish, but the truth is that there are over 100 varieties of this creature... They live in the oceans of the far south, and each variety has its own distinctive coloration. These fish are most often seen socializing in groups among stalks of coral. Rather chatty, wot?"

It can be found in the back tank with the other ocean fish.

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Butterfly fish are considered very cute pets, popular because of their beautiful nature. They glide through the warm seas by flapping their yellow bodies as if they were butterflies. Their diets are surprisingly hardy, as they gobble coral and poisonous anemones using narrow mouths. Butterfly-fish couples have been known to live together for 10 years or more. Often they can be seen swimming around in pairs. You'll likely never find a better underwater romance."

Upon donation to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers will give more information on the fish.

"Ah, the butterfly fish is just charming with its beautiful colors and elegant movements. I refer to it as a butterfly fish, but it's actually a grouping in which there are over 100 types! These beautiful aquatic friends swim in schools amid coral, fluttering back and forth with the tides. The sheer awe one must experience when witnessing such a sight. It must be a dream! So much better than actual butterflies..."













The oriental butterflyfish is an Asian reef fish, and one of many different butterflyfish that are known to exist. Coral-eating butterflyfish are typically territorial in nature, and mated pairs will guard specific areas of coral viciously. In aquariums, butterflyfish are often prized for their coloration, however due to their diet most species are troublesome to maintain, and the species most often seen in domestic care are zooplankton feeders.



