Carp

Cyprinus carpio





Carp
コイ Koi










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#3
#3
#3
#3
#6
#6
#6
#5







Location
Price


River (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC)Holding Pond (NH)
300 Bells450 if sold to C.J.200 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


26,75 in. 70 cm
Large




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Cyprinus carpio


Family
Cyprinidae - Carp



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The carp is a common river fish found throughout the year. It is also found in the holding pond in New Horizons. It is the commoner cousin to the koi, the goldfish, and the popeyed goldfish.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the carp can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"I do believe many people enjoy this fish raw at sushi restaurants...I understand it makes a rather tasty addition to soups and chowders, wot!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"...Hoo, tell me, have you ever had occasion to see the teeth of a Carp? They're positioned far back in the mouth and can bite through seashells! I daresay you shouldn't go sticking your finger into a carp's mouth, wot? That is a mighty chomp!"

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These tough fish have very long life spans, capping out at ages surpassing 100 years. Their whiskers are one of their trademark features, making them relatively easy to identify. They're omnivorous and eat waterweed and bugs by sucking their food into their mouths. They also have teeth in the back of their throats that help break down shellfish for digestion."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Oh, the carp...have you ever seen their teeth? For your sake, I hope you have not! Carp have teeth in their throat strong enough to crunch on hard things like shells and fingers! A good rule of thumb when dealing with other species is to keep your fingers out of their mouths. Although, having neither thumbs nor fingers, I am quite safe from this little fellow!"

When given to Chip he says:

When given to Chip he says:











A real life carp.
The carp is a fish originally found in East Asia, but introduced the world over. They can grow up to a meter in length. They eat up to three times their body weight every day, up to 60lb (28kg). They are particularly popular for angling, as well as to eat in many cultures around the world.



