Catfish

Silurus asotus





Catfish
ナマズ Namazu










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#7
#7
#7
#7
#15
#15
#17
#18







Location
Price


River (AC)River Pool (WW, CF, NL)Holding Pond (NH)
200 Bells (AC)800 Bells (WW, CF, NL, NH)400 Bells (PC)




Size
Shadow size


29,20 in. 70 cm
Large




Time of year
Time of day


May to October
4 pm - 9 am



Scientific name
Silurus asotus


Family
Siluridae - Freshwater Catfishes



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)




The catfish is the most common river pool fish. It is found in the holding pond in New Horizons. From Wild World onward, it sells for 800 Bells, making it one of the least expensive river pool fish.

Prior to Wild World it was a common river fish, but in future games it has more or less replaced the role of the larger giant catfish, which was restricted to the river pool like the catfish in newer games.

Upon donating to the museum, Blathers the curator will say;

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot!"

Upon donating to the museum, Blathers the curator will say;

"I've heard some claim that these fish taste a bit like eel, you know. If you want to sample it, (Name), I'd recommend pan-frying it. Indeed, I believe you could deep-fry a rock, and I'd enjoy it, wot!"

Upon donating to the museum, Blathers the curator will say;

"Catfish are known the world over for their voracious appetites! They'll try to eat anything in one bite, up to and including things the of their bodies...or so I hear! The largest of these hungry fish can grow up to 40 inches in length... Imagine going down to the river and having one of those behemoths come at you! The horror!"

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Catfish are known for their long whiskers, wide bodies, and large mouths, but they don't have fur. Despite having large eyes, they have rather poor eyesight. They make up for this with sensory whiskers. Catfish have small horizontal and vertical lines in their bodies, almost like perforated lines. These holes are for detecting weak electric currents of other fish, making them adept hunters. Catfish are artful carnivores as they swim around lazily but then strike quickly when prey is found."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Catfish don't have scales and are rather slimy. Believe it or not, this slime helps them breathe! Some species of catfish are nocturnal, and they'll feed on almost anything. They use a suctioning action to pull in their food. Did I mention they can grow as large as you or I..."













A real life catfish


Catfish have one of the greatest ranges in size within a single order of bony fish. Many catfish have a maximum length of less than twelve centimeters. Some of the smallest species of Aspredinidae and Trichomycteridae reach sexual maturity at only one centimeter (0.4 in). Many species have a slimy covering and can adapt to breathing on land for a while, like eels. The order Siluriformes as a whole are commonly caught in real life, usually in ponds or lakes. In some fiction, a pun is played on the name 'Catfish' by making it have the head of a cat or referencing it otherwise. In some parts of the world catfish are consumed and are considered a delicacy.



