Centipede

Scolopendra subspinipes japonica





Centipede
ムカデ Mukade









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#61
#69
–
#77







Location
Price


Under rocks
300 Bells




Size
Available in rain


65 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


June to February (CF, NL)September to June (NH, north)March to December (NH, south)
4pm to 11pm



Scientific name
Scolopendra subspinipes japonica


Family
Scolopendridae



Appearances
CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The centipede is a rock-dwelling bug introduced in City Folk. Like the pill bug, the centipede can be found under rocks by striking it with a shovel or an axe. They can be found between the months of June and February from 4 pm to 11 pm. They are worth 300 bells, which is somewhat low for something so elusive, but typical of bugs. When fleeing from the player they make a rattling sound.



「ムカデを捕まえた！　見るだけで　ムズムズぅ～！」 —City Folk 
「ムカデをつかまえた！　見るだけで　ムズムズぅ～！」 —New Leaf 

Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers will say this about the centipede:

"Indeed, centipedes are quite fast to boot, wot? If the beast attacks us, how will we flee to safety? Moreover, they have hard shells, so we can't stop it with a furious stomping... We're doomed!"

An information board in the bug exhibit will list this information about this bug.

"Despite the name, centipedes have a varying number of legs, from about 30 to 46 rather than 100. They also have forcipules, which are a modification of the first pair of legs, that inject venom. Centipedes are sometimes used as an ingredient in herbal medicine, though the effect is questionable.

Centipedes can be found on the second level, near the rafflesia, along with the fly.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The centipede's name means '100 legs.' But I tell you now, that's a lie! These ugly bugs can have as few as 15 pair of legs...or as many as 171. But because of how their bodies are segmented, they never have exactly 100! Hoo! It's true! You know what else is true? Centipedes are carnivorous, aggressive, and venomous! And their bite is quite painful too! HOO-rrible things I say."

The centipede in the Animal Crossing series is most likely to be Scolopendra subspinipes, a species found across much of Asia. It can grow to up to 20cm in length, but usually less. This centipede is very aggressive and nervous and ready to strike anything nearby. It will usually try to eat anything that isn't bigger than itself. Its bites are very painful as they contain a concoction of toxins which the centipede uses to kill prey. If a human is bitten by this centipede, severe fever and swelling will occur. It is the only species of centipede known to have killed a person, a seven-year-old girl in the Philippines. Despite this, this species is often kept as a pet by exotic animal enthusiasts.




