Char

Salvelinus leucomaenis





Char
おおイワナ Ooiwana










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#23
#23
#23
#23
#24
#25
#27
#28







Location
Price


Waterfall (GCN, WW, CF, NL) River (Clifftop) (NH)
10,000 Bells (GCN), 3,800 Bells (WW, CF, NL, NH) 1,600 bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


20 in. 50 cm
Large (GCN), Medium (WW, CF, NL, NH)




Time of year
Time of day


March to June, September to November
4pm-9am (Mar-Jun)All day (Sept-Nov)



Scientific name
Salvelinus leucomaenis


Family
Salmonidae - Salmon



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The char is a freshwater fish found in all games. Prior to Wild World, it was known as the large char. It is commonly associated with waterfalls, and is always found near them. In games prior to New Leaf, it was found in the pool at the bottom of the waterfall, but in New Leaf it can be found both above and below waterfalls. Starting in New Horizons, it is found in the clifftop rivers instead of strictly next to the waterfall. It is rare at times but can be slightly more common in the month of June.

"Oh! What a large and CHAR-ming fish. That was dismal, wasn't it? Mum warned me to avoid comedy. Regardless of my shabby comedic failings, this fish will have a safe and comfortable home here."

"Hoo! Indeed, WOO hoo! A char! There are many ways to prepare char, or so I've heard from gourmands. Sadly, it is NOT deemed acceptable to char them, rendering all puns moot. I suspect any and all puns might've been substandard, so perhaps that's best."

"Char are certainly not named for the method people use to cook them. That would be rather daft... Since they aren't the best of swimmers, they often take refuge from rushing waters in rock crevices... When feeding, they merely stick their faces into the rushing water and let food fly in, wot wot? No one's sure if it's lazy or brilliant...but it certainly is quite hard to dislike!"

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium reveals information about this fish.

"Char are related to salmon and live in rivers upstream, not generally migrating to the ocean. They prefer colder water and dwell in secluded, clear rivers deep in mountain ranges. Since they tend to hide mostly in between rocks in these cold areas, they can be rather difficult to spot."

The char appears in the middle, left tank of the aquarium.

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The char is one of the bigger fish around the world, and, in the world of fish, that's quite an accomplishment! They are territorial predators, and therefore must constantly defend their 'turf' from others. So when you see a large char like this one, it is likely a skilled fighter and veteran of many battles. My feathers! I hope it never has cause to go into battle with me!"



「おおイワナを　つりあげた！　Ｏｈ！　イワァーナァー！」 —Animal Forest and Animal Forest e+

「おおイワナを　釣り上げた！　こいつは　何年モノかな？」 —New Leaf 











A real life char
The white-spotted char is a member of the genus Salvelinus. It is found in many rivers along the northwestern Pacific coast, and is present in Hokkaido and the northeastern Korean Peninsula. It is an alternative fishing solution to Rainbow Trout for a farming fish because it uses very little resources. Char feed mainly on insects, but can feed on fish and small crustaceans. According to legend, a whale-sized char dwells in the depths of Lake Mashu in Hokkaido.



