Common butterfly

Pieris rapae





Common butterfly
モンシロチョウ Monshiro-chou









AF
AF
AC
e
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




#1
#1
#1
#1
#1
#1
#1
#16
#1







Location
Pri


Flying
80 Bells (AC)90 Bells (WW, CF, NL)10 Bells (PC)160 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


50 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


March to October (AC)March to September (WW)March to June & September (CF, NL)September to June (NH, north)March to September (NH, south)
8am to 5pm (GCN)4am to 7pm (WW)4am to 7pm (CF, NL, NH)8am to 4pm (CF Sept.)



Scientific name
Pieris rapae


Family
Pieridae (White butterflies)



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



March to September (WW)March to June & September (CF, NL)September to June (NH, north)March to September (NH, south)
The common butterfly (モンシロチョウ, Monshiro-chou?) is a small white butterfly that is similar to the yellow butterfly in all but color. They sell for 80, 90 or 160 Bells depending on the game version. They fly slowly in circles, generally around flowers, but can also be found flying freely. The common butterfly is the first bug according to number order of the bug list in all games.

As with all bugs and fish in Animal Crossing series, the common butterfly can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers. Below is what he has to say upon donation:

Blathers response upon accepting butterflies for the museum in Animal Crossing is the same for all species:

"There's an old saying among some of my contemporaries: "Butterflies are beautiful, yet moths are monstrous." Well, if you were to ask me, I'd say they were all the same! By which I mean disgusting! Truly hoo-rrific, wot wot!"

The common butterfly can be found fluttering around the flowers in the central display in the bug room after donation.

When donated to the museum in Wild World, Blathers the curator will speak about the common butterfly:

"The common butterfly looks quite innocent, eh wot? Far from it! It's a pest! It is a worldwide cabbage-field ravisher, hoo! I suppose that is rather beside the point, but still, innocent, my foot!"

The common butterfly appears in the first room of the bug exhibit, fluttering above the flowers on the right hand side of the room.

The Yellow Butterfly and the Common Butterfly in the Museum.
As with previous games, Blathers treats the common butterfly with general disgust:

"If one were to look closely at a common butterfly, one might notice that it's covered in fine hairs... But WHY would one look closely?! Blecccch! Creepiness aside, one also gets icky powder on one's hands by touching them... Not for me, eh wot?"

After donation, the common butterfly flies around the flower beds in the lower terrace of the bug room.

After donating a common butterfly, the museum sign reads:

"Seen flapping in the sun, common butterflies can be identified by black spots on their white wings. To the human eye, both males and females look white, but there are actually subtle differences. On closer inspection, the males' wings look black while the females' wings look white. The caterpillars have been known to cause damage to farmers' crops."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The common butterfly would have you believe it is but a beautiful friend flitting prettily about the flowers. Bah, I say! They may seem innocent things with their pretty white wings, but they hide a dark side! The common butterfly caterpillar is called a cabbage worm, you see, and it's a most voracious pest. The ravenous beasts chew through cabbage, broccoli, kale and the like with a devastating gusto. And my feathers! Their green coloring is truly GROSS! A hoo-rrific hue, I say."

After Day 9 in game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option and you can complete the "World Insects" lesson with 2 play coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.









Ai with the Common Butterfly.
In the movie, a Common Butterfly makes an appearance in the blue rose garden when Ai tries to find Apollo.

A cabbage white butterfly.
The common butterfly is a representation of the cabbage white or small white, a kind of butterfly found across much of the northern hemisphere. They are preyed upon by large arthropods such as spiders in rural areas, but by birds in urban areas. They are very common and not at risk of extinction. Their caterpillar is a serious pest on farms as they eat voraciously and can destroy crops very easily in large numbers.



