Cranky

N/A

Cranky villagers (コワイ Kowai, or オレ Ore) (also called Grumpy villagers) are male villagers in the Animal Crossing series. The name is a direct reference to the meaning of cranky; someone who is irritated or annoyed easily. As of now, there are 66 cranky villagers.

O'Hare, Rowan, and Curlos used to be cranky villagers. All three received personality changes since New Leaf, with O'Hare and Curlos changed to smug and Rowan to jock. Although, there were some villagers that used to be one personality but changed to cranky since New Leaf; the only three villagers as of present to do so is Dobie and T-Bone, from lazy, and Harry, from jock.

The cranky characters can seem quite bitter and out-of-touch with social trends, making them generally unpopular with the peppy villagers. They have the deepest voice of all the characters, except Jack and Phineas, and many of them appear to be glaring.

In Animal Crossing, they go to sleep at 5:00 AM and wake up at 10:00 AM. In Wild World and City Folk, they go to sleep at 4:30 AM and wake up at 10:00 AM. In New Leaf, they go to sleep at 4:00 AM and wake up at 10:00 AM. In New Horizons, they go to sleep at 3:30 AM and wake up at 9:00 AM, with the exception of Fishing Tourneys and Bug-offs, where they wake at 8:00. When trying to enter the house of a cranky villager before they wake up, the message explaining that they are asleep is much angrier compared to other personalities.

They usually spend a small amount of their day in their houses, and most of the day out. They can seem self-centered at first glance, and often enjoy gossiping about lifestyles of other villagers, making them snobby as well as grouchy. They will act protective of the player when the player becomes friends with them and they will seem to disagree with most of the things that other villagers say.

Cranky villagers are considered the male equivalent of snooty villagers, due to their more mature and somewhat rude attitudes, as well as their general confusion on some other villager's lifestyles.

They find it easy to get along with snooty, jock, sisterly, smug, and other cranky villagers, usually discussing trivial things such as food and the problems with unhealthy food. They find it difficult to get along with peppy villagers, who cranky villagers claim are "mucking around." Thus, conversations between a cranky villager and a villager of one of these types will result in one of them depressed and, occasionally, cranky villagers will tell the player that things are getting boring so they are considering spreading rumors about another animal and 'watching the fun.' The usual response from either of the personalities is to call them an 'old man' or 'grandpa.' They also get along with lazy and normal villagers most of the time, but can sometimes offend or upset them when anything wrong has been said.

Although they may appear unfriendly, if the player talks to them, does errands for them and sends them letters for long enough, they will eventually begin to open up and will be more friendly with the player. In Animal Crossing, a cranky character will often speak to the player about their niece after becoming friends, and also may give requests relating to their nieces, such as wanting a ball for their niece or a bug to give to them. While dialogue in earlier games suggests that their niece is coming to visit them, said niece never actually appears. Also, in City Folk, they may say this to another cranky villager. When a cranky villager becomes sad, he will say something along the lines of how he 'lives in a cold world.' They can usually grow to be close friends if the player meets them often and sends them letters with presents attached. Many of their picture quotes are a variant of "I'm watching you." Cranky villagers are often the ones that give the player an invitation to Crazy Redd's, though they do warn them about how sly he can be. Although, in some cases, Crazy Redd appears on his own in the town plaza, calling the player his "cuz".

When a player gets closer to a cranky villager, the villager may appear more gentleman-like than the other villagers, because while the player is getting to know them, they may refer to themselves as more mature or like an old man.

In Happy Home Designer, they state to follow ukulele lessons and show their knack for everything related to Hawaii.

In Pocket Camp, cranky villagers tend to be friendly with the player from the start. Some of their dialogues in the same game also imply they are among the older villagers, such as claiming they were responsible for building the windmill at Breezy Hollow, or using more antiquated terms when greeting the player at camp.

Below are some (not all) quotes made by cranky villagers.

O’Hare, Rowan, and Curlos used to be cranky villagers.

The following is a list of villagers who have the cranky personality in their latest installments of the Animal Crossing series games.




