Crawfish

Procambarus clarkii





Crawfish
アメリカザリガニ Amerika-zarigani










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
#32
#32
#11
#11
#11
#11







Location
Price


Holding Pond
250 Bells (AC, AFe+, WW, CF)200 Bells (NL, NH)1,000 Bells (PC) 




Size
Shadow size


4.8 in. 13 cm
Small




Time of year
Time of day


April to September 15th
All day



Scientific name
Procambarus clarkii


Family
Cambaridae - Crayfishsup.Astacoidea



Appearances
AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Common (★)



The crawfish is a common "fish" (actually a crustacean) found in the holding pond between the months of April to mid-September.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the crawfish can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"This diminutive fellow is a relative of the lobster. Its pincers are small, but distressingly powerful, wot? Indeed, it delights in a little pinchy-pinchy, eh wot? We'll take pains to ensure our mutual safety."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"You'll find these little fellows in many pots across the southland, I imagine. I've personally never sampled one. They look rather... insect-ish. Blech."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"...I don't do particularly well when around crawfish. I mean, really. Look at it. It's like a wretched insect! And those legs... Did you notice all those wiggly legs? All the better to revolt me. Hoo, and the vulgar belly, all segmented and buglike. Absolutely abhorrent!"

It can be found in the middle-left tank in City Folk.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will say the following:

"These shrimp relatives are usually found in ponds and rivers, typically making them easy to catch. The reason for this strange habitat is that crawfish are plentiful and will eat just about anything. Eating plant material makes their bodies red, but only eating fish and meat will turn their bodies blue. A red color indicates they are eating a healthy and balanced diet, so red is the ideal for the species."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Ohoo! So you have found a crawfish. Neither crab nor lobster, crawfish evolved in an interesting manner. Beware their fearsome pinchy pinchers! Behold their many legs! I say! It is a bit bug-like, eh wot... The more I look at it, the more unsettled I feel... Let's be done with this and never speak of it again, shall we?"











A real life crawfish.
Procambarus clarkii, the red swamp crawfish, is one of the three large freshwater crawfish. Whilst this species is popular amongst children in Japan, it is in fact an introduced, non-native species, having been accidentally released into the wild in the 1920s. Now, it is contributing to the decline of native species of crawfish.



