Crucian carp

Carassius carassius





Crucian carp
フナ Funa










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#1
#1
#1
#1
#3
#3
#3
#3







Location
Price


River
120 Bells 10 Bells (PC) 160 Bells (NH)




Size
Shadow size


11.8 in. 30 cm
Small




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Carassius carassius


Family
Cyprinidae - Carps



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The crucian carp is a common omnipresent fish in all games and tied with the frog and the bluegill as the second lowest-selling fish in the game at 120 Bells.


“¡He pescado un carpín! ¡Me lo quedo de botín!”
― New Leaf

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the crucian carp can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot! We will take excellent care of this fellow, oh yes. You can rest assured. Excellent care, indeed."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"When I hear crucian carp, I think to myself...Taco! Indeed, FISH taco, wot wot! I suppose this might be an odd choice of fish for such a dish, but...I say, by any chance, would you like to try it out and get back to me?"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"The largest difference between a crucian carp and a carp is the former's lack of whiskers, wot? Compared to the regally whiskered carp, there's something almost common about the crucian variety!"

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

Crucian carp are fairly easy fish for beginners to catch, but they're also popular with veteran anglers. They are related to koi and can live up to 15 years, making them a great fish to keep in a pond. Male offspring are seldom born, so females significantly outnumber males, making populations suffer. Luckily, females reproduce with males of some other species, so the problem is relatively temporary."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"I wonder... Do you know how to tell the difference between a crucian carp and a standard-issue carp? It's quite easy to tell the two apart... One must simply locate the barbels. Or, rather, the lack of them! And just what is a barbel, you ask? Well, a barbel looks a little something like a mustache. A run-of-the-mill carp will sport this unsightly "facial hair," while a crucian carp is considerably better groomed! I tried to grow a mustache when I was younger. It never did fill in quite right... All for the best in the end, as mustaches go so much better with noses than with beaks!"

When given to Chip he says:

TBA

When given to Chip he says:













A drawing of a real crucian carp.
Carassius carassius is a fish of the carp family. People commonly have these in aquariums, but there are also people that eat them, typically in Asian countries. The variation in shape of a crucian carp can be very high and is highly based on its environment. The fish get an almost perfect disk shape with well-rounded fins at first. If no predators such as pike or perch are present, the crucian carp will grow in length rather than height and the fish will be more slender-looking.




