Cyclommatus stag

Cyclommatus elaphus





Cyclommatus stag
ホソアカクワガタ Hosoaka-kuwagata









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#50
#57
–
#59







Location
Price


On palm trees
8,000 Bells




Size
Available in rain


30 - 109 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


July to August (CF, NL, NH, north)January to February (NH, south)
5pm to 8am



Scientific name
Cyclommatus elaphus


Family
Lucanidae- Stag Beetles



Appearances
CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)(CF) Uncommon (★★★)(NL)



January to February (NH, south)
The cyclommatus stag (ホソアカクワガタ, Hosoaka-kuwagata?), simply called the cyclommatus in City Folk, is a stag beetle with large mandibles introduced in City Folk. They are found on palm trees from 5 pm to 8 am and sell for 8,000 Bells.

In New Leaf, it is relatively common for its substantially high price, although it is just as rare as other palm tree bugs such as goliath beetle.

Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers the curator will say,

"The calling card of the cyclommatus is its pair of mandibles, which are usually as long as its body. Another interesting fact is that the bug hates heat and will usually perish in a non-air-conditioned room. I can sympathize, eh wot? Leaving the sanctum of the museum for the summer heat is simply wretched."

In New Leaf, the cyclommatus stag is a quite common bug on the island, and may be a way to get some fast money.

In New Leaf, an information board in the bug exhibit outside the museum will list information about this bug.

"Cyclommatus stags are identified by their long pairs of mandibles, which can be as long as their bodies. Their large mandibles are actually already formed when they're in the pupal stage of life. Although these beetles are mostly easygoing, those living in mountains really can't stand the heat."

After donation, the cyclommatus stag can be found on the second tier of the bug section, in the large enclosure on the middle palm tree. This enclosure also contains the rafflesia, tarantula, scorpion, and elephant beetle, to name a few.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The cyclommatus stag is known for its giant jaws, which can be even larger than its body. Its round eyes and silver color make it a beloved beetle. Though how one could love a beetle is beyond me. Imagine being pinched by those long jaws, and the pain it would cause! Ouch and ewww!"







The cyclommatus stag is a species of beetle found in sub-alpine regions of Indonesia. Its impressive mandibles are often as long as its body, doubling the beetle's length. It uses these mandibles to fight off other beetles for a potential mate.The male of a type of cylommatus- Cyclommatus metallifer are typically 3 times larger than females, and unlike to most stag beetles both genders have pronounced mandibles. In combat the cyclommatus stag is noted to be rather weak, but it makes up for this with its mandibles which it tends to use to clutch it opponent's legs to prevent movement and lift them.




