Dace

Leuciscus leuciscus





Dace
ウグイ Ugui










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#6
#6
#6
#6
#4
#4
#4
#4







Location
Price


River
200 Bells (AC, WW, CF, NL) 240 Bells (NH) 300 bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


14 in. 35 cm
Medium




Time of year
Time of day


All year
4 pm to 9 am



Scientific name
Leuciscus leuciscus


Family
Cyprinidae - Carps/Minnows



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The dace is a fairly common fish that can be found swimming in rivers. Daces are moderately easy to catch and probably will not make a player win the Fishing Tourney due to its small size. Its appearance has changed throughout the games, with its winter apparel being present in all games except City Folk where it is adorned with its summer colors. Its abundance fluctuates throughout the year.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the dace can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"This is one of those fish that seem to mysteriously disappear from time to time. Drives fishermen batty, wot! Have no fear, dear friend! You're leaving this beauty in very good wings, hmmm? Hoo! Owl humor. Hoo hoo!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"I can't say I've ever seen this on a menu... To be honest, I can see why! It's rather bony...and one must consider the stench... No, none too appetizing."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Most fishermen think of dace as a bit of a nuisance because they interfere with catching more desired fish. This fish cares not... During spawning season, the dace dons a bright orange stripe across its belly! Even nuisance fish get the urge to dress up and strut a bit, eh wot?"

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Dace can live in cloudier, murkier water than most but are easy to see as their numbers are so plentiful. They are related to carp, and some species of dace live in the ocean as well as rivers and streams. During mating season, the bellies of the males develop an orange stripe to indicate their intent to mate."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Dace are shiny little fish that enjoy freshwater streams with gravelly bottoms and plenty of sunlight. What a fishy paradise...until the larger fish move in and begin eating the dace! Sadly, the shiny dace are easy for other fish to spot, which makes them a popular snack. However, this particular specimen has no need to worry. There's a strict "No Eating Your Neighbor" policy at this institution."



「ウグイを　つりあげた！　なんか、マイナー。」 —Animal Forest 

「ウグイを　釣り上げた！　なんか、マイナー？」 —New Leaf 









The name dace refers to a large number of species of ray-finned fish in the Cyprinidae family and includes other fish beyond those that have the common name "dace". They usually inhabit rivers and fast-flowing water. The species in Animal Crossing is known as the "big-scaled redfin" or "Japanese dace" and exhibits vibrant changes of coloration in the summer.



