Deserted island

N/A

A typical island layout, before development (NH)
The deserted island is the main setting of Animal Crossing: New Horizons, and where the player resides, replacing the town in previous games. Unlike the town, it begins as a pristine, desolate island surrounded by the sea, in the middle of the ocean. The player flies to the Deserted Island with Tom Nook, Timmy and Tommy, and two villagers (always guaranteed to be one Sisterly and one Jock) as part of the Nook Inc. Deserted Island Getaway Package, and over time, it is developed into a thriving community.

When starting the game for the first time, the player has the option to choose between 4 from various templates, some have south-south river mouths, others have south-east or south-west. The player must take notice of this when landscaping in the future, other parts that aren't able to be changed are: The beach and its rocks, the pier, the locations of the airport and the resident services tent/building as well as the output of land in the shore.

Initially, the Deserted Island features only two structures, erected in advance by Nook Inc: the airport, and the Resident Services tent. After the player and two villagers who purchased the Getaway Package arrive, they are given tents to set up at sites of their choosing within a section of the island bounded by a river. There is also a pier on either the eastern or western coast of the island, but depending on the island's layout it may not be accessible until the player acquires the vaulting pole.
After a while, the player will unlock the vaulting pole and the ladder and be able to cross rivers and climb up cliffs, which will allow the player to access more items such as fossils and flowers. The player will also be able to construct bridges and inclines to access the rest of the island without the need of a vaulting pole or ladder.

Eventually, the island can be expanded with a Museum, Nook's Cranny, Able Sisters, an upgraded Resident Services, a campsite, and up to eight additional housing plots for a total of ten villager houses. More shops will be added over time, per Nintendo Interview.

