Dorado

Salminus brasiliensis





Dorado
ドラド Dorado










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
#33
#35
#39
#42







Location
Price


River
15,000 Bells (22,500 if sold to C.J.)




Size
Shadow size


36 in. 91 cm
Very Large




Time of year
Time of day


June to September
4 am to 9 pm



Scientific name
Salminus brasiliensis


Family
Characidae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The dorado  is a rare golden fish that appears during the summer months. The name comes from the Spanish word for "golden", referring to a shining golden color. It is sometimes considered the summer equivalent of the stringfish. This fish is diurnal, meaning it can only be seen during the daylight, or, more specifically, 4am - 9pm. It is one of the most valuable fish along with the coelacanth, golden trout, great white shark, and stringfish, selling for 15,000 Bells.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the dorado can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers will say:

"Hoo my! Congratulations are in order! You've finally caught one, eh wot? Did the mighty dorado put up a good scrum? You've passed the test! You're initiated into the secret club of fisher folk!"

It can be found in the middle tank, after donating it to museum.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"My hoo, I never dreamed someone in this town would hook a dorado! It's a fish that lives up to the image of El Dorado it conjures... I could gaze upon it all day!"

It can be found in the right tank after donating it to the museum.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Dorado means "golden" in Spanish. As the name would indicate, these fish are gold and have black dots. They look like salmon but are very toothy, carnivorous, and related to piranha. They're such ferocious fish that other fish regularly flee from them, fearful of becoming a snack. Their ferocious natures and power make them a prize catch among anglers."

It can be found in the large tank at the top of the room in the river section of the aquarium.

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Woo-hoo! So shiny! This massive fish's name, dorado, means "golden" in Spanish—a fitting title. They are also quite valuable, I understand. I congratulate you on your top-notch angling! They are rather large, eh wot? It makes one wonder what all they might feed on... Fowl, perhaps?! One quivers at the very thought! Well, it'll be safe behind glass, no doubt. Quite safe, hoo..."













A real life dorado
Dorado is Spanish for golden, a suitable name for such a shining fish. In real life they are frequently confused with the Mahi-mahi, Coryphaeus hippurus (dolphin fish) also called the dorado, which is the name of an oceanic fish that it is unrelated to it. The two real life species of "freshwater" dorado are Salminus maxillosus and Salminus hilarii. This fish can be found in the rivers of South America, most notably the Parana River of Argentina, and its tributaries, and it isn't as rare as Animal Crossing makes it out to be.



