Dōbutsu no Mori e+

Nintendo EAD



Dōbutsu no Mori e+









Developer
Nintendo EAD


Publisher
Nintendo



Platforms
Nintendo GameCube


Release date
 June 27th, 2003


Genre
Life simulation


Modes
Single player


https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/wiki/File:D%C5%8Dbutsu_no_Mori_e%2B_Main_Theme.ogg


Dōbutsu no Mori e+ (どうぶつの森ｅ＋[1]), often called Animal Forest e+ by English-speaking fans, is a Japan exclusive update of the GameCube port. When Nintendo decided to port Animal Forest+ to the GameCube, the American version, Animal Crossing, had much more content than the Japanese version. Nintendo of Japan was so impressed with the results of the translation done by Nintendo of America's Treehouse division that they translated Nintendo of America's version back into Japanese and released it as Animal Forest e+. Animal Forest e+ was released in Japan on June 27, 2003, and sold 91,658 copies during its first week of sale.

Animal Forest e+ had many new features and characters. One of these new features was the Town Decoration. Town decorations were structures that can be placed on signposts. These items can be bought in Tom Nook's Store or by inputting codes that could be found in the official site. All town decorations simply serve just one function; to be decorations.

All the bugs in Animal Forest e+.
All the fish in Animal Forest e+.
There are also 18 new islanders in Animal Forest e+ in addition to the original islanders seen in Animal Crossing such as Marina, and 77 new exclusives such as Margie. All new villagers and islanders are only obtainable through their e-card. The Island is also present, without the need of a GBA hookup. There is an entire extra row of fish and insects to collect, making 16 new species total that are not present in Animal Crossing including the Horse Mackerel, Squid, Octopus, Dab, Olive Flounder, Seahorse, Puffer Fish and the Swordfish and the Crab, Hermit Crab, Coconut Crab, Flea, Water Beetle, Birdwing Butterfly, Dung Beetle, and Hercules Beetle for new insects. The latter two bugs and fish are only obtainable on the island.

Additionally, the Brook Trout from Animal Crossing has not been switched with the Herabuna as it was in previous games, and remains.

In Animal Forest e+, the island is now a debt. The player can access it before they pay it off, however. After paying off the 2nd floor and speaking to Tom Nook, he will offer the player the island who will then name it. Then, the island can be accessed by speaking to Kapp'n. In addition, each player in town can have their own island. There are no islanders on the island until the player chooses some by going to the Wishing Well, and scanning the islander’s e-card. There are 2 fish and 2 insects which can only be caught on the island. The pufferfish and marlin can only be caught in the ocean from the island. The birdwing butterfly and the hercules beetle can only be caught on the island.

Villagers will also have the same house as others, with the wallpaper and flooring changed.

There are new options added into option selections among NPC characters, including creating and destroying objects from Tom Nook's Store, and selecting where a letter should be saved among designated memory cards.

The e-Reader is set up in the "ETM" machine in the Post Office in Animal Crossing. In Animal Forest e+ the ETM is used to get presents, but the rest of the functionality is through the Wishing Well. The player can invite villagers by scanning their e-Card as well as download new minigames to their Game Boy Advance. All new villagers can only move in by scanning their e-Card.

Although the e-Reader is compatible with Animal Crossing, both the e-Reader and the cards themselves are sold separately. Animal Forest e+ comes with its own e-Reader and six bonus cards.

As an upgraded re-release to Animal Forest+, there are many differences between Animal Forest e+ and Animal Crossing.

The in-game clock, now stylized.
Tom Nook in his pajamas
