Emperor butterfly

Morpho menelaus





Emperor butterfly
モルフォチョウ Morufo-chou









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#6
#6
#6
–
#9







Location
Price


Near flowers,Anywhere (CF)
2,500 Bells (NL)3,000 Bells (PC)4,000 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


115 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


June to September (CF, NL)June to September, December to March (NH, north & south)
8am to 5pm (WW), 7pm to 8am (CF, NL)5pm to 8am(NH)



Scientific name
Morpho menelaus


Family
Nymphalidae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)(WW) Scarce (★★★★)(CF,NL)



4,000 Bells (NH)
The emperor butterfly (モルフォチョウ, Morufo-chou?), is an uncommon butterfly that is found around flowers in the summer months, at varying times of the day depending on the game. In City Folk, it becomes the only butterfly that can be found in the night, however in Wild World it is diurnal.

"Emperor" is not a term naturally relating to this butterfly's real life inspiration, so it is likely that this was actually meant to be the purple emperor previously found in the GCN games.

As with all fish and bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the Emperor Butterfly can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers, the curator. When donating, Blathers will say the following upon receiving the Emperor Butterfly:

"Hoo. Ah. What have we here? An emperor, if I'm not utterly mistaken? Ah, no, please, don't bother taking it out of its cage! Protocols, you know, wot? I'm a bit squeamish about insects, you see, and I don't fancy touching one."

It can be found on or flying around the row of flowers on the right of the first room, with the other butterflies.

"The emperor butterfly's beautiful blue markings make it a popular gift in certain parts of the world. Hoo, yes, wonderful gift... Such gift givers should have their heads examined, I should think..."

It can be found in the bottom terrace, flying near or resting on the flowers with any other butterflies.

An information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Emperor butterflies are easily recognized because of their lovely, iridescent blue wings.  Pigmentation isn't actually what causes the color, but rather the reflections on their wing scales.  Since their wings shimmer when moving, noticing them is much easier when they are midflight."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The emperor butterfly is called the jewel of the forest. But its vivid blue hue... Ewww, let me tell you! The color does not come from a dye, but rather from light reflecting off layers of translucent scales. Yes, butterfly wings are covered in tiny scales! SCALES! Butterfly? Bah! More like snake of the sky!"

After Day 9 in-game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option. You can complete the "World Insects" lesson with 2 Play Coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.











A Blue Morpho butterfly in real-life.
Morpho menelaus, more commonly known as the Blue Morpho, is an exotic butterfly that can be found in Central and South America. It feeds primarily on rotten fruit, but in the larval stage, it often eats other larvae of the same species. Morpho stems from the Greek word for form, which means 'changed'. This may be a reflection of the species' beautiful cerulean iridescence, which has the quality of changing colors in the light, and is not actually true pigment.



