Fish

N/A

Fish are a number of collectable items in the Animal Crossing series. Players can catch them using a fishing rod. They can be donated to the museum to fill up the aquarium, sold to Tom Nook/Reese, or placed in the player's home inside of a Fish Tank, like a piece of furniture. However, only small fish tanks will be able to placed on top of furniture (e.g. A Table). Larger fish tanks must be put onto the floor. A large amount of fish emerge during the summer, a few unique species will emerge in autumn and spring, and there are almost none during the winter. Some villagers in City Folk will ask the player to try and catch a certain fish, and upon doing so, they will give an item to the player, which could be anything from an article of clothing to a piece of furniture. 

In the series there are six different sizes of fish. Each fish is limited to its own shadow size. Sharks and sunfish are unlike other fish shadows because they show a fin in their shadow.

In New Leaf, there are now various catch sizes of each fish that can be kept track of and recorded into an encyclopedia. Every time the player catches a fish that is bigger than the original record, it will be overwritten. However the shadow size for each type remains the same, no matter how big or small the resulting catch size is.

Animal Forest
In Animal Forest, there are 32 species of fish obtainable. The coelacanth is the only fish that can be caught in the ocean.

Animal Crossing fish list.
In Animal Crossing, there are 40 species of fish obtainable.The herabuna from Animal Forest and Animal Forest+ has been replaced with the brook trout. The crawfish, frog, killifish, jellyfish, sea bass, red snapper, barred knifejaw, and arapaima were added.

Animal Forest e+ fish list.
In the Japanese-only game, Animal Forest e+, there are an extra 8 species of fish, making 48 species of fish obtainable. The new species include the horse mackerel, puffer fish, dab, olive flounder, squid, octopus, seahorse, and swordfish (Called blue marlin in later games).

In Wild World, a total of 56 fish are obtainable. Dropped fish include the herabuna, brook trout, giant catfish, small bass, and large bass. New fish include the yellow perch, king salmon, dorado, gar, sea butterfly, clownfish, zebra turkeyfish, football fish, tuna, ocean sunfish, hammerhead shark, and shark. No Animal Forest e+ endemics were dropped. In Wild World, 35 fish are freshwater and 21 are saltwater.

In City Folk, a total of 64 fish are obtainable. No fish were dropped. New fish include the pike, neon tetra, surgeonfish, butterfly fish, napoleonfish, lobster (fish), moray eel, and ray. The placement of fish in this game is evened out. In City Folk, 37 fish are freshwater and 27 are saltwater.

All 72 fish in New Leaf.
In New Leaf, a total of 72 fish are obtainable. Dropped fish include the jellyfish, while the octopus (fish) and lobster (fish) became Deep-sea creatures. New species include the soft-shelled turtle, tadpole, mitten crab, nibble fish, saddled bichir, blowfish, ribbon eel, giant trevally, saw shark, whale shark, and oarfish. The game features 42 freshwater fish and 30 saltwater fish.

In New Horizons, a total of 80 fish are obtainable. Dropped fish include the barbel steed, eel, and rainbow trout. New fish include the ranchu goldfish, snapping turtle, tilapia, golden trout, betta, rainbowfish, sturgeon, anchovy, mahi-mahi, suckerfish, and barreleye. The game features 46 freshwater fish and 34 saltwater fish.

Below is a list of the fish in the mainline series based on appearances. Images are based on most recent appearance.

Bass(prior to WW)

Swordfish(prior to WW)

Large Char(prior to WW)

Shark(prior to NH)



