Flea

Pulex irritans





Flea
ノミ Nomi









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
#38
#49
#57
#64
–
#74







Location
Price


On villagers
95 Bells (AFe+)  70 Bells (WW, CF, NL, NH)




Size
Available in rain


2 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


March to November (AFe+ to NL)April to November (NH)
All day



Scientific name
Pulex irritans


Family
Pulicidae - Fleas



Appearances
AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The flea, Pulex irritans, is a bug in the Animal Crossing series that can be found from spring to early winter. They appear as a dark brown, bouncing speck on a random villager, and they can be caught by hitting the villager with a net. In City Folk, New Leaf, and New Horizons, every time the flea jumps, a little 'whew' sound can be heard. This will indicate if a flea is near. Additionally, it also changes the villager's catchphrase, usually related to something about them itching, which includes "itchy", "eek", "scritchy" and "gross".

Once the flea has been caught, the villager that played host to it will give a response, usually one of denial, shock, or gratitude, which corresponds to their personality. Snooty, normal, smug, and peppy villagers will be horrified, and will ask you to keep it a secret, while jock, cranky, sisterly, and lazy villagers will not be shocked or embarrassed and will be happy to be free from the feeling. The villager's catchphrase will then go back to normal.

Players cannot play host to fleas themselves, though on donation the flea does make an effort to harmlessly chase the player across the bug exhibit.



「ノミだーっ！　かゆい！」 —Animal Forest e+ 

「ノミだーっ！ あー、かゆっ！」 —New Leaf 

As with all bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the flea can be donated to the Museum followed by a small talk by Blathers, the curator.

On donation the flea appears in the middle of the museum where it hops along the floor.

Upon donation, Blathers will reluctantly educate the player about fleas:

"Fleas, you see, are parasitic bugs that have existed since ancient times, and they have been discovered even in fossils beyond 40 million years old. According to one theory, fleas continue multiplying by producing dozens of eggs daily! Ah, how disgusting..." (translation)

Blathers will unwillingly accept fleas for exhibition. Here, he speaks of the flea:

"Heed my words, (Player name)! Bathe often! Wash yourself thoroughly! And shampoo regularly! Allow yourself to become filthy, and fleas move in! Blech! The very IDEA... Now I feel itchy."

The flea can be found hopping around the first room after donation, but is usually near the pond. In the museum, the flea takes on a more redish color, though when caught it it appears as black.

Again, Blathers will express his disgust at the flea in City Folk:

"Hoo now, have you ever had a chance to look at a flea up close and personal? They're utterly noisome! Especially vulgar are their flattened bodies, which allow them to wriggle into all sorts of places. Oh, mercy, I may need to sit on the floor for a moment. All this talk of fleas makes me feel rather woozy."

Once donated, fleas appear as a barely-visible speck, bouncing around on the path on the central terrace in the bug exhibit.

After donating a flea, the sign in the museum will read:

"Fleas are tiny insects that feed on blood from humans and animals, which then results in an itchy rash. They use their piercing mouths to suck blood while injecting saliva into their host at the same time. Unlike mosquitoes, both males and females suck blood. The females are larger than the males."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Allow me to be blunt. The flea is foul! It is also disgusting, repugnant, and vile! Hoo! But I digress... This horrid pest sucks the blood of humans and animals. In fact, it is the flea's own saliva that makes us itch! And did you know their legs are so strong, they can jump more than 50 times their body length? So you see, it's all too easy for a flea to jump from you to me! I itch at the very thought."







The human flea, Pulex irritans, is a widespread species of flea that is thought to have originated from South America. Despite the name, they are found on all manner of birds and mammals, including dogs, pigs, chickens, monkeys and even some species of bat. They have, through evolution, lost their wings and have instead developed, long, powerful legs that can be used to jump incredible heights- roughly 200 times their body length.

Fleas feed on blood. After feeding, females lay eggs on the skin or hair of the host animal. A single flea can have over 500 offspring in its lifetime, which live in the host's bedding feeding on dust and dried blood excreted by their parents after feeding.



