Fly

Musca domestica (WW, CF, NL)Lucilia sericata (NH)





Fly
ハエ Hae









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#52
#60
#67
–
#72







Location
Price


Rafflesia, Trash, and Spoiled turnips
80 Bells (pre-NH)60 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


5 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Musca domestica (WW, CF, NL)Lucilia sericata (NH)


Family
Muscidae - House Flies (WW, CF, NL)Calliphoridae - Blow Flies (NH)



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The fly, Musca domestica, is a common bug that can be found throughout the year, quickly flying around rafflesia, spoiled turnips, or discarded rubbish caught when fishing.

In other games, except for New Leaf, there may be a number of flies around the object which can be caught individually. Flies can be hard to catch as they are very small, and this is especially the case in New Leaf when they fly very fast and erratically. Although they make a loud, high-pitched buzzing noise, they can sometimes be hard to spot due to their size. 

Flies sell for 80 Bells (60 Bells in New Horizons), making them one of the least valuable bugs in the Animal Crossing series, on par with the ant. However, the cicada shell in New Horizons is now the least valuable bug in the game.

Flies tend to swarm around rafflesia, a flower, due to its foul smell. This stench is, in fact, used to attract such insects as flies in order to pollinate. In City Folk, a rafflesia can be found in the insect exhibit. Once donated, a fly will buzz around it.



As with all bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the fly can be donated to the Museum followed by a small talk by Blathers, the curator.

Blathers, being as afraid as ever of bugs, will comment, as always, on your donation:

"My largest complaint about these vile bugs are their filthy little feet, wot! Leaping about on my dinner! FOULNESS! UTTER FOULNESS! Blech! The mere thought... Couldn't they at least scrub those fly toes?"

After donation, the fly can be found flying freely around the first room, but is usually found flying near the pond in the exhibit on the left of the first room.

Again in City Folk, Blathers will say:

"Hoo, you are aware that flies also serve as an important source of data for the academic world? Their simple structures make them rather ideal organisms to use in many experiments, wot? So remember, next time you see a fly, know that it's more than a bug that just flies around dumpsters!" 

In the bug exhibit, the fly can be found near the Rafflesia, and the description plate in the museum will read as follows: 

"Flies are often seen rubbing their forelegs to clean them, which seems odd, because, well, they're flies. However, they need to keep their legs clean as they contain taste and tactile receptors. By doing so, they can better savor the flavor of whatever they find to eat next. The legs also contain a sticky liquid so flies can more easily land on smooth surfaces."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The foul fly is quite the disquieting creature. I tell you, it tastes its food with its feet! Yeep! In fact, when flies rub their legs together, they do so to get rid of debris blocking their taste receptors. And did you know, their hairy toes release a sticky goo so they can walk on any surface? Even your ceiling! This gross goo gets on your food too!"







A real housefly.
Houseflies, Musca domestica, are a common species of fly that can be found throughout the world. They have red compound eyes and are colored gray. The housefly is thought to have evolved in the Middle East 65 million years ago and has spread with the dispersal of man throughout the world. Flies can carry up to around 100 diseases, and they are also known to inhabit less hygienic areas. Flies live for around 15 to 25 days and can have up to 500 offspring. They are around 6 to 9mm long. Houseflies can only survive in higher temperatures as adults; in the winter months, they only exist at larvae or eggs. These larvae can be hatched from eggs in only a day. Despite this, flies only live in generally colder climates where humans are present.




