Freshwater goby

Odontobutis obscura





Freshwater goby
ドンコ Donko










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#18
#18
#18
#18
#13
#13
#15
#16







Location
Price


River
300 Bells  400 Bells (NH)  10 Bells (PC)




Size
Shadow size


6 in. 15 cm
Small (AC, NL, NH), Tiny (WW), Medium (CF)




Time of year
Time of day


All year
4 pm to 9 am



Scientific name
Odontobutis obscura


Family
Gobiidae - Gobies



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The freshwater goby is an uncommon fish that can be caught in the river in every game during the night. It sells for a low price despite its rarity.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the freshwater goby can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"This is one of those fish that seem to mysteriously disappear from time to time. Drives fishermen batty, wot! Have no fear, dear friend! You're leaving this beauty in very good wings, hmmm? Hoo! Owl humor. Hoo hoo!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"A friend of mine claims that freshwater goby tastes fantastic on pizza. What a loon, eh wot?

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"This round little fish may look like a mild-mannered goby at first...but it's actually quite aggressive. The freshwater goby is known for its tendency to try to eat anything that will fit in its mouth... Rather shocking, really. I'm quite glad this little piggy's mouth is nowhere near owl-sized, eh wot?"

After donation, the freshwater goby can be found in the middle-left tank.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These short and stocky river-dwelling fish have a lot of slender teeth for tearing apart other fish. Freshwater gobies dig holes under rocks in riverbeds to make nests for eggs, which the males guard. Other fish breeds take advantage of this protective quality and often lay eggs in goby nests."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The freshwater goby is an unassuming specimen. But beneath that calm, fishy exterior, true gluttony resides! It will eat anything that will fit in its mouth... And its mouth is quite the gaping maw, so I recommend you refrain from drawing attention to yourself!"











The freshwater goby is typically a native fish to tropical and temperate areas of Asia. There are numerous types of these so-called fish, known as haaze in Japan. All live in freshwater rivers where they scavenge the riverbed for prey.



