Frog (fish)

Hyla japonica





Frog
カエル Kaeru










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
#34
#34
#12
#12
#14
#15







Location
Price


Holding Pond
120 Bells WW, NL-NH250 Bells CF200 Bells PC




Size
Shadow size


4,50 in.  12 cm
Tiny ACSmall WW-NH




Time of year
Time of day


May to August
All day



Scientific name
Hyla japonica


Family
Hylidae - Tree frogs and their allies



Appearances
AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Common (★)



The frog is the most common fish in the series of the holding pond fish. It sells for 120 Bells. It has a distinctive croak, which can be heard nearby to a pond if a frog is present. It appears from May to August and is out all day long.

When donated to the museum in New Horizons, the frog is located in the Pond Tank, sitting atop a lily pad. After donating a frog, another frog can also be seen on a lily pad in the fountain located in the Butterfly Exhibit.

When donated to the museum in New Leaf, the frog is located in one of the rectangular tanks in the River Exhibit. It sits on a lily pad on the surface of the water, and may be hard to spot.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the frog can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Greeeeeee! Gree! Gree! That's my best Sonoran green toad impression, wot! We do keep frogs and toads here. Well, then, let's get our amphibious friend settled. All the damp comforts of a home. Guaranteed."

The frog sits on a lily pad on the top right tank in the aquarium upon donation and croaks occasionally.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"This forgotten pond,observed by a lonely frog,drains slow, as my youth."

That was a haiku, eh wot? Rather an incomprehensible one, but one nonetheless. Many find frogs repulsive, but they're so prevalent, even poets sing of them!"

The frog sits on a lily pad on the back tank of the first room in the aquarium upon donation.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Fascinating... Were you aware that frogs make slight adjustments to their croaks to communicate? Hoo, they say many things to each other! For example, "ouch," "flee,""I like you ♥," and so forth. With enough practice, maybe I can learn to speak with our amphibian friends! ...Hoo-ribbit! Hoo-ribbit!"

The frog appears in the middle-left tank on a lily pad floating on the surface. It makes no movements, other than croak and move with the lily pad.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These former tadpoles prefer to live near ponds and other damp and swampy places. They dwell on land, so they have lungs and skin as opposed to a set of gills. They like to stick close to water because they require a nice, moist lifestyle. Frogs are moist because they emit a liquid to protect their skin from dryness. If too much moisture evaporates from their thin skins, they could have trouble breathing. It's better not to handle frogs, as some species are poisonous, even to the touch!"

It can be found on a lily pad floating on the surface of the large tank on the left side of the river room. It will occasionally croak and moves with the lily pad.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"I understand that frogs converse with fellow frogs through a number of varied calls, as it were. Ribbit! My prince as a arrived! Gribbit riiibbit! This pond is tragic! Ribbity rib't! I think you're splendid! Hoo hoo, of course I have no clue what they're saying, but I like to think if I practice enough, I might!"

The frog appears in the pond tank in the first room on top of a lily pad.











The Japanese tree frog is only found in Japan. Like many tree frogs, it is green in color. The frog is considered very common and is of least concern on the IUCN Red List. It has been in space, and a journalist took some to the Mir space station in the year 1990. In Animal Crossing, upon catching the frog, there is a comment made about the frog being warty, despite frogs having no warts. When given to the Museum in Animal Crossing, Blathers mentions the Sonoran green toad, which is found in Mexico. There are 4,740 frog species in the real world predicted to be living and almost 95 of them live in the United states.




