Gar

Lepisosteus oculatus





Gar
ガー Gaa










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
#34
#36
#40
#43







Location
Price


River Pool
6,000 Bells




Size
Shadow size


29.97 in. 2.25 Meters
Very Large




Time of year
Time of day


June to September
4 pm to 9 am



Scientific name
Lepisosteus oculatus


Family
Lepisosteidae - Gars



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The uncommon gar acts as a nighttime counterpart to the giant snakehead. It sells for 6,000 Bells. It appears in late summer from 4 PM to 9 AM. It is also the most valuable river pool fish.

When placed in the museum, the gar shares a tank with the arapaima. This means it is in the middle tank in Wild World, and the middle-right tank City Folk.

"<Player>, if you plan to raise a gar at home, I have some crucial advice. You must be very careful not to overfeed it! These brutes grow much faster than you might suspect, eh wot? Before you know it, it could be bigger than you can handle! The horror!"

"Hoo, I daresay you've really fished a winner this time, my dear owlet! Gar can grow to massive sizes--up to 120 inches! Let's hope this new addition to our museum can grow to an equally enormous size..."

After donating a Gar, the sign in the museum reads:

"Their long faces and large mouths make them look like alligators. Some can grow up to three yards. They are ancient fish that haven't changed since they first appeared millions of years ago. They breathe not only through gills, but also by sticking their mouths above the surface of the water. Gar eggs are poisonous, so people all over the world are advised not to eat them -- no exceptions."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo hoo! So you have snagged a gar. Did you know this beastly fish can grow up to nine feet long? Indeed, the gar is a remnant of times long past—a living fossil, if you will. It not only has sharp teeth and armor-like scales...it has the ability to take breaths of air as well! Ah, to look upon this unusual fish is to get a glimpse of our prehistoric past."













An alligator gar in real life.
The alligator gar can be caught up to twelve feet in length (about 4 meters). Its scales are diamond-shaped and are sometimes used for jewelry. Gar are similar to pike in that they can be very voracious predators. The word Gar is an Old English word for spear.



