Giant snakehead

Channa argus





Giant snakehead
ライギョ Raigyo










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#16
#16
#16
#16
#17
#17
#19
#19







Location
Price


River Pool (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL)Holding Pond (NH)
6,500 Bells (AC)5,500 Bells (WW, CF, NL, NH)4,000 Bells (PC)




Size
Shadow size


27.45 in. 85 cm
Large




Time of year
Time of day


June to August
9am to 4pm



Scientific name
Channa argus


Family
Channidae - Snakeheads



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The giant snakehead is a fish that can be caught in the river pool during the summer. It is caught in the holding pond in New Horizons, due to the removal of the river pool. They can be sold for 6,500 Bells in Animal Crossing, and 5,500 from Wild World onward. They are surprisingly abundant considering their selling price. To some extent, they can be said to be the slightly more common daytime counterpart of the gar, or the giant catfish in Animal Crossing.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the giant snakehead can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"What a stupendous beast! It must have taken great effort to land this fearsome creature, eh wot? I've heard that giant snakehead carry parasites. Be sure to thoroughly cook them before eating. Blech! Parasites! Of course, we'll accept this one. Have no worries, we'll take special of it."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"I firmly believe the best way to prepare a fish is the way the locals do it...Based on that philosophy, chili-pepper flakes are a must with giant snakehead! And if you notice one shaking chili flakes on YOU, might I suggest fleeing?"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"...What a giant snakehead! These fish are notorious for their tremendous appetites, eh wot? Much like a snake, once one of these grabs its prey, naught can convince it to let go... I should think a few well-placed owl kicks might convince it, should one ever take a liking to me! In any case, this fish doesn't hunt all year 'round. It hates the cold and hibernates through winter. I've come up with a smashing nickname for it... "The Scourge of Summer!" Marvelous, eh wot?"

After donation, the giant snakehead can be found in the big, left-hand fish tank with other river fish.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

Giant snakeheads get their name from the fact that their heads look like those of snakes. Their scales and patterns also look like snakes', really bringing the resemblance to a high degree. They have sharp teeth, so don't poke your finger anywhere near their mouths! Both males and females are well known for protecting their eggs and offspring. They will scare off any other fish that approach by frantically waving their tails.

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The giant snakehead is quite a sight to behold, wot! One glance conjurs up visions of its namesake. This resilient creature can even find a home in the mud, where it is able to breathe. As a matter of fact, it dislikes cold weather, so during wintertime the mud serves as its temporary home. I hear that they eat anything that swims past their head... While odd, I feel a sense of owlship with them."













The giant snakehead is the largest in the family Channidae, capable of growing to over one meter in length (three feet) and a weight of over 20 kilograms (40 pounds). They are very well-versed predators, and eat creatures ranging from small fish to other snakeheads. Many species of snakehead can be used as pets in aquariums, but most grow too large to be sustained in most tanks.




