Giant stag

Dorcus hopei binodulosus





Giant stag
オオクワガタ Ookuwagata









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




#40
#40
#32
#32
#43
#48
#55
–
#57







Location
Price


On trees
10,000 Bells




Size
Available in rain


20 mm - 76.6 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


July to August (GCN, NL)June to August (WW, CF)
11pm to 8am



Scientific name
Dorcus hopei binodulosus


Family
Lucanidae - Stag Beetles



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The giant stag (オオクワガタ, Ookuwagata?) is a rare and valuable bug found in all games in the Animal Crossing series. Prior to New Leaf, it was known as the giant beetle. It appears during the summer nights, between the months of June and August, and between the times 11pm and 8am. It is extremely similar to the stag beetle, the only differences being that it is a bit darker and bigger. 

It appears more frequently on the Island in the Nintendo GameCube games and New Leaf.

Giant Beetle in Animal Crossing
Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers will say:

"Your donation of such an obviously valuable insect is really quite generous. Thank you so very much! To me, however, it's just an overpriced cockroach. And that awful black luster... Horrendous!"

Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers will say:

" If you took this to a shop, they'd be willing to pay quite well for it, hoo. But to me, it just looks like a glorified, expensive cockroach!"

Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers will say:

"The giant beetle boasts a massive horn, and yet it's said this bug is actually something of a milquetoast. Apparently this bug would prefer to stay inside where other creatures won't bother it. How precious. Even I could handle being near such a shy insect! I shan't be touching it, though..."

After donation, the giant beetle can be found on the top-most level of the bug section, three trees to the right of the lamp on the left-hand side, on the tree between the walkingstick and bagworm tree and the Saw Stag Beetle tree.

In New Leaf an information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Giant stags are huge stag beetles with one tooth in each side of their large jaws. They're very territorial but careful at the same time, so they usually hide in holes in trees. They have a long life span. Records show that some have lived up to five years. They're very popular among collectors as pets, so they commonly fetch a high price."

After donation, the giant stag can be found in the upper-right room in the bug exhibit, on the tree next to the Bee and the Stinkbug.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"It is said that the giant stag is a popular pet among bug enthusiasts. Though how one might consider oneself enthusiastic about bugs is quite beyond me... But I digress. Giant stags look fearsome with their enormous curved mandibles. But in truth, they're really quite cowardly. Oh how they love to hide away in rotting wood, only to reveal themselves under the cover of dark. Hoot! I shall never turn off the lights again!"







The largest stag beetles are in Japan, where they are highly prized. Adults live for about three years and like the saw stag beetle are nocturnal and attracted to light sources. They once fetched prices as high as 300,000 yen ($3,000). Their value is reflected in Animal Crossing at the price of 10,000 Bells. Their status as endangered is very relevant to excessive capture of the beetles for collections, rearing or trading, however their numbers are on a steady rise.




