Giant trevally

Tropical Sea (New Leaf)Sea (Pier) (New Horizons)





Giant trevally
#68







Location
Tropical Sea (New Leaf)Sea (Pier) (New Horizons)


Price
4,500 Bells 3,500 bells (Pocket Camp)


Size
71.85 in. 180 cm


Shadow size
Very Large


Seasonality (N)
May - October


Seasonality (S)
November - April


Time of day
All day


Appearances
NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The giant trevally is a rare fish introduced in New Leaf. In New Leaf, it is only found in the waters around the island; in New Horizons, it now spawns by the pier.



In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium lists information about this fish. When interacted with, it reads:

"Though you wouldn't guess it because of their size, giant trevallys are actually a type of mackerel. Unlike normally slim and sleek mackerels, giant trevallys have wide, sliver bodies. Surprisingly, though, these fish cannot tolerate the cold, so they tend to live in warmer places. Their jaw strength is great enough to bite off a person's finger, so be very careful when fishing for them!"

Upon donation in New Horizons or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers will say:

"The giant trevally, as befits its name, can reach six feet in length and 180 pounds. Its size and strength has made it a favored opponent for anglers since time immemorial. They are also ingenious hunters, sometimes taking advantage of other predators to distract their prey. There have even been documented cases of them attacking - gulp - birds."







The giant trevally (Caranx ignobilis) is a tropical species of trevally that is found throughout the Pacific and Indian Oceans. The species begins grey but darkens sometimes to black with age. The species is most popular as a gamefish, but in the past, it was also seen as a commercial fish albeit rarely. Ultimately selling the fish became illegal after investigations confirmed severe cases of ciguatera poisoning resulting from consuming the fish.




