Giant stag beetle

Dorcus titanus



Giant stag beetle
ヒラタクワガタ Hirata-kuwagata









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




#29
#29
#29
#29
#42
–
–
–
–







Location
Price


On trees
2,000 Bells




Size
Available in rain


50-65mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


June to August
7 PM to 8 AM AF-AFe+7 PM  to 9 AM WW



Scientific name
Dorcus titanus


Family
Lucanidae



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, PC


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The giant stag beetle (ヒラタクワガタ, Hirata-kuwagata?) is a gray nocturnal stag beetle. After a long absence from the series, it returned in Pocket Camp.  Before Pocket Camp, it was known as the stag beetle and before Wild World as flat stag beetle. It is uncommon, though easy to find, and sells for 2,000 Bells. It is found on trees along with its cousins, the Saw Stag Beetle, the Mountain Stag Beetle and the Giant Beetle, and is the most common of these four, especially from 6-8am.

As with all bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the stag beetle can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers. During the donation, he will tell the player a little bit about it.

"They're called beetles, wot? The lugs of the insect world. Insects with armor plating their backs, you know. Their armor, it... opens up, revealing wings. Featherless wings. Which they use to fly! It's really quite unnatural. Then, there's that thin, membrane-like covering where their heads connect to their bodies. Most foul!"

Blather's comment is as follows:
When picking up a stag beetle, I would advise you to grab it on it's back side. If your finger got stuck in the brute's pinchers, you'd surely regret it, wot wot!



「やったー！　ヒラタクワガタを　捕まえた！　そういえば　ひらべったい。」 —Animal Forest e+ 



The Hirata Stag Beetle, called hirata-kuwagata (ヒラタクワガタ?) in Japanese, is a variable species, with no two beetles having the same mandible shape. It has many subspecies and is endemic to asia.The subspecies of indonesia and phillipines are large This is an area where many of the Dorcus titanus beetles have to coexist with the giant and violent Asian Chalcosoma rhinoceros beetles, such as the Caucasus beetle. It may be for this reason that the Dorcus titanus beetles needed to grow larger to compete for shelter and food against these other giant beetles. 

Dorcus titanus beetles have similar wide, jet black bodies. However, the different subspecies differ in body size and also mandible shape. A look at the different subspecies that I have owned below will show these variations. For example, a close examination of the palawanicus and the yasuokai will show that their mandible shape is very different. In contrast, the palawanicus and the tatsutai do have mandibles that look very similar, but their body sizes are different. Palawanicus can grow up to 110mm, but the tatsutai can grow up to 80mm.r lands moved apart a long time ago. As a result, the beetles adapted to their environment, resulting in the different subspecies we see today.




