Giraffe stag

Prosopocoilus giraffa keisukei





Giraffe stag
ギラファノコギリクワガタ Girafanokogirikuwagata









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
#61







Location
Price


On palm trees
12,000 Bells (NH),6,000 Bells (PC)




Size
Available in rain


123 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


July to August (NH, Northern Hemisphere),January to February (NH, Southern Hemisphere)
5pm to 8am (NH)



Scientific name
Prosopocoilus giraffa keisukei


Family
Lucanidae



Appearances
NH, PC


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)



The Giraffe stag (ギラファノコギリクワガタ, Girafanogirikuwagata) is a bug that first appeared in New Horizons.

In Pocket Camp, the bug was temporarily available during the All Together Now! Horned Dynastid vs. Stag Beetle event in August 2020.

Because of its rarity, high selling price, and difficulty to catch (as it is the most timid of all the beetles, which are already notoriously timid and easy to scare off), it is often seen by the community as one of the most difficult bug to capture. Extremely careful creeping techniques are required to successfully catch a giraffe stag.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The giraffe stag beetle is a bug of preposterous proportions. Not only is its body rather large, it has two long, jagged jaws that can put it over five inches in size! The giraffe stag beetle's long jaws have been compared to the long neck of the giraffe...hence the name. But I say such comparisons are a stretch. Giraffe necks are NOT lined with spikes! If I were a giraffe, I would protest."



The giraffe stag beetle is one of the largest of the stag beetles. Males are highly territorial and will fight over their territories. Like all stag beetles they eat rotten wood. This species is found throughout southern Asia; from India to the islands of Indonesia, you can sort the subspecies by observing the mandibles. Prosopocoilus Giraffa Keisukei is the largest subspecies, Prosopocoilus Giraffa Daisukei has the brightest elytra , Prosopocilus Giraffa Giraffa is the smallest subspecies and is endemic to the whole southeast Asia.



