Golden stag

Allotopus rosenbergi





Golden stag
オウゴンオニクワガタ Ougononi kuwagata









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#51
#58
–
#60







Location
Price


On palm trees
12,000 Bells5,500 Bells PC




Size
Available in rain


83 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


July to AugustJune to August(NL)
5pm to 8am (Peak from 11pm to 8am)



Scientific name
Allotopus rosenbergi


Family
Lucanidae-stag beetles



Appearances
CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)



The golden stag (オウゴンオニクワガタ, Ougononi kuwagata?) beetle is a very rare bug that was introduced in City Folk. It sells for 12,000 Bells, tying it with the Hercules Beetle as the most expensive bug in the game. Its name comes from its unique gold color. The name "Golden Stag" is shared with another real-life species, Lamprima aurata.

Because of its rarity, high selling price, and difficulty to catch (as it is the most timid of all the beetles, which are already notoriously timid and easy to scare off), it is often seen by the community as the most difficult bug to capture. Extremely careful creeping techniques are required to successfully catch a golden stag.

Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers the curator will say:

The Golden Stag fighting the Hercules Beetle
"Though less dramatically shaped than most stag beetles, this bug's gold, shiny color makes up for it! Another notable point about the species is the friendly way males and females interact. The most successful families are the ones that get along best, eh wot? Well done... vile bugs."

The Golden stag can be found fighting a Hercules beetle on a stump if the player manages to donate it either prior to or after the Golden stag. This would feature in future games of the series (although to a much lesser extent in New Horizons).

In New Leaf an information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Golden stags are named after their unique gold color and are highly prized by collectors. They shine like gold when their bodies are dry, but when it's humid, they actually look black. Golden stags have short mandibles that aren't good for fighting, but males sometimes fight for territory. The males are surprisingly friendly to the females, which gives these beetles a likeable quality."

After donation, the Golden Stag Beetle can be found on the second tier of the bug section in the first enclosure, walking on the tree stump towards the back. If a horned hercules has been donated, both will fight on the stump - lifting one another up in the air then tipping each other over.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Yes. Yes. The golden stag beetle is quite the prize thanks to its metallic gold coloring. But let me speak plainly... The golden stag is NOT made of gold. It is made of BUG, through and through. And thus it is vile! Golden stag? Bah! Gross stag is more like it."

The Golden Stag is found in the first room of the bug exhibit, on the left tree closest to the giant tree. If the player visits the museum at night, it will sometimes instead be at the large tree near the top of the room where it and five of any other Stag beetles the player donated proceed to enter a fight, with its opponent, or even if it actually fights at all, being random with each visit.







Allotopus rosenbergi is a rare species of Lucanid stag beetle from Java. Its short mandibles are not very adapt for fighting, and are better suited to digging through rotten logs. Adults feed on tree sap in high mountain areas and dense tropical jungles, generally at an altitude higher than 1,000 meters. They are nocturnal and are attracted to light sources. Breeding in individuals imported to Japan is complicated, as they are very sensitive to high temperatures, and are adapted for life in high altitudes, it is also known as the golden ghost stag beetle for its appearance. They can change their color from gold to black; when in a dry environment or deceased, their shells turn gold, but in a wet environment they change their color to black.



