Goldfish

Carassius auratus





Goldfish
キンギョ Kingyo










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#26
#26
#26
#26
#8
#8
#8
#7







Location
Price


River (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL)Holding Pond (NH)
1,300 Bells




Size
Shadow size


5.65 in. 15 cm
Tiny




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Carassius auratus


Family
Cyprinidae - Minnows/Carp



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The goldfish is a rare river fish that can be found throughout the year. It is found in the holding pond in New Horizons. It is one of the smallest fish at 15 centimeters long. Like its relative, the popeyed goldfish, it appears in a goldfish bowl when placed in the house.

The goldfish can be donated to the museum in game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Those adorable little fins! Those huge googly eyes! Even I am helpless in the face of their cuteness!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo, in my youth, I once had a goldfish in my room. His name was Sir Blathers. Goldfish are actually quite sociable creatures, eh wot? At least they are when they're being fed, that is. Who can resist them?"

It appears in the first tank in the aquarium.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo now... Do you know how large goldfish can get? Well, they can grow up to... ONE FOOT LONG! The growth of a goldfish in a tank is inhibited by tank size, so you rarely see them that big, I'd imagine. Even so, our tanks here at the museum are spacious... so expect our new goldfish to make a BIG splash! ...Hoo now? Not at all funny, you say?"

It can be found in the small tube-tank in the aquarium.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These are aquarium fish that came about by selectively breeding types of crucian carp. It took hundreds of years to get the long tail fin and beautiful color of the current breed. Even red goldfish are black when they are young and still retain some other vestiges of the crucian carp. They turn red as they grow, thus gaining their much more commonly known look."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Goldfish are so cute and delicate... but do you know how big they can get? Why, they can grow up to... a foot in length! Well, sometimes. The size of the tank they're kept in tends to restrict their growth. And just how big will this goldfish get in our large museum tank? I look forward to finding out!"



(Rough) Translation:











A real-life goldfish
The goldfish featured in Animal Crossing is the Fantail breed, which is the western variation of the Ryukin ("Dragon family") breed. It has two fins instead of one, an egg shaped body, a high dorsal fin and lacks a shoulder hump. They appear to have a distaste for cold waters. Goldfish have been bred into a wide array of shapes, sizes, and even colours.




