Great purple emperor

Sasakia charonda





Great Purple Emperor
オオムラサキ Ōmurasaki









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




#4
#4
#4
#4
–
–
–
–
#7







Location
Price


Flying
2,000 Bells (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, PC)3,000 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


50-65 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


June to August (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, PC)May to August (NH)
8am to 5pm (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+)4am to 7pm (NH)



Scientific name
Sasakia charonda


Family
Nymphalidae - The Brush-foots



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The purple butterfly (オオムラサキ, Ōmurasaki?), also called great purple emperor, is a rare butterfly found in GCN games, Pocket Camp and New Horizons. In the GCN games this bug requires trees for appearance, and may be more readily found during rain or during all seasons on the Island provided trees are planted. It is the only airborne bug to occur in rain except for bees and tree insects and it is significantly easier to catch in New Horizons.

It is the fastest butterfly in the GCN games when flushed, and it will disappear when it leaves the acre in Animal Crossing and Animal Forest e+, but not in Animal Forest and Animal Forest+.

After a long absence, the purple butterfly returns in Pocket Camp. In New Horizons it appears under its full name.

"There's an old saying among some of my contemporaries: "Butterflies are beautiful, yet moths are monstrous." Well if you were to ask me, I'd say they're all the same! By which I mean disgusting! Truly hoo-riffic, wot wot! Hooo... But I digress..."

Once donated it appears in the middle of the bug section sitting on the trunk of a tree.

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The great purple emperor lives high in the treetops and is renowned for its pretty purple-hued wings. Its impressive bird-like wingspan and elusive nature have made it a favorite among butterfly aficionados. But truth be told, the so-called great purple emperor has some not-so-great peculiarities. For one...it has two horrid HORNS upon its head when it is in its caterpillar form. For two...it has been known to dine on feces and animal carcasses! Hoo! That's why I call it the Emperor of EWWW!"

Once donated, it appears in the main room flying close to a group of beetles, unlike the other butterflies. At night, it rests on the large tree.

「やったー！　オオムラサキを　つかまえた！　どっかの　しまぐにの　くにのチョウ　らしい！！」 —Animal Forest 

「やったー！　オオムラサキを　つかまえた！　どっかの　しまぐにから　きたらしい！」 —Animal Forest e+ 



Sasakia charonda, better known as the great purple emperor, is a large nymphalid butterfly unrelated to the European purple emperor, Apatura iris. However, much like the latter species, it inhabits the treetop canopy, only coming down to feed. Not only this, in both species the females are identical to the males except they lack the purple iridescence. Larvae feed on hackberry plants. It is the national butterfly of Japan, and highly prized by collectors.



