Great white shark

Carcharodon carcharias





Great White Shark
サメ Same










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
#55
#63
#68
#74







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
15,000 Bells (22,500 if sold to C.J.)




Size
Shadow size


214.25 in. (544 cm)
Huge (with fin)




Time of year
Time of day


June to SeptemberDecember to March (Southern Hemisphere)
4 pm to 9 am



Scientific name
Carcharodon carcharias


Family
Lamnidae - Great white sharks



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The great white shark, formerly known as the shark (サメ, Same?) prior to New Horizons, is a finned fish that can be found in the ocean from June through September, from 4 pm to 9 am. It is the second longest fish in the series, behind the Whale Shark. The shark will generally win any "size" fishing tourney due to its immense size. It is one of the most valuable fish along with the coelacanth, dorado, golden trout, and stringfish, selling for 15,000 Bells.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the shark can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:
"Shark flesh is often used in processed seafood products, eh wot? As such, you might wonder why it isn't grilled like other fish, am I correct? Well, shark tends to reek of ammonia, you know. And that is NOT good."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"If one were so inclined, one could sit around pulling shark teeth all day. They simply keep growing back! I've heard that over a shark's lifetime, it will go through thousands of teeth, which is disconcerting. ...Anyhoo, no toothpaste needed! How appropriate for a creature that's been around since the dinosaurs!"

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"The triangular teeth of sharks appear to have evolved from scales sometime in the past. When a tooth breaks, it quickly falls out and a new one grows in, keeping them always in good shape for prey. Sharks can be fearsome creatures, able to smell blood from several miles away. They can even jump out of the water to catch prey, making them powerful predators. Contrary to their tough image, their bones are made out of cartilage and erroneously used as health food."

Upon donation or selecting "tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Great white sharks are obviously known first and foremost for their biting. They are masters of the craft! They do lose teeth regularly through biting-related activities, but, luckily, those teeth grow back quickly. In fact, their missing teeth can be regrown in a single day. Just imagine their tooth-fairy-related income!"











A shark in real life. (Great White Shark)
The "shark" (named prior to New Horizons) very closely resembles the great white shark. Great white sharks are large predatory fish found in all the world's oceans. The sizes of about 17 feet long in the game are accurate to the actual average size of great whites. Although it has gained a reputation for being a man-eater from movies and other media (such as the 1974 Peter Benchley book and later the 1975 classic movie Jaws), there are relatively few unprovoked attacks on humans by this species. Great white sharks actually do not harm humans on purpose; they merely mistake surfers as seals. Its form has remained relatively constant for over 300 million years. Unlike most fish, sharks have no bones; their skeleton is made of cartilage. 




