Guppy

Poecilia reticulata





Guppy
グッピー Guppii










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#28
#28
#28
#28
#29
#30
#33
#34







Location
Price


River
1,300 Bells




Size
Shadow size


1.6 in. 4 cm
Tiny




Time of year
Time of day


April to November
9 am to 4 pm



Scientific name
Poecilia reticulata


Family
Poeciliidae - Livebearers



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The guppy is a rare freshwater fish found in the river during the months of April through to November between 9am to 4pm, in all games since Animal Forest. It tends to be rare during the month of April but will become easier to find as the months go on. It sells for 1,300 Bells in Tom Nook's Store, which is equal to that of the goldfish and popeyed goldfish. Its shadow size is tiny in all games.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the guppy can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo hoo! Hullo, little fishy! Aren't we a tiny little fellow! Adorable! Why, I believe it stuck its tongue out at me! Hoo-rumph! Nevertheless, we'll take care of the little blighter! I'll keep an eye on this mischief-maker myself!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Many don't know that the guppies with ornate tails are actually the males! Indeed, the females are quite dull...much like Celeste, always stargazing. I really wish she would pay attention to something else on occasion... Ah! I'm terribly sorry! That wasn't what we were talking about, was it?"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Male guppies are known for their colorful, bright ugly-like patterns... But look closer, and you'll see males share a design with their female peers... Indeed, a matching couple! It seems like the pairs are a little shy about their romance and tend to hide it. Simply adorable!

The guppy can be found in the small tank in the bottom-left of the aquarium, with other tiny fish in City Folk.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Guppies are tropical fish that are related to killifish and live in warm rivers. They are popular fish that have been bred to have beautiful flowing tail fins. Mother guppies give birth to their babies after the eggs hatch in their bellies. They give birth at a rate that's nearly constant, so their population tends to grow rather quickly."

In New Horizons, upon donation to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blather will give the player more information on the fish.

"Oh my! Would you look at that! Such a beautiful, snazzy little fellow that guppy is! The shape and coloration of guppy fins are all unique. Quite eye-catching, I must say. Do you imagine they host contests for "most snazzy"? And...do you suppose I might receive an invite?"

「グッピ―が　つれた! かがやいてるね!」 —Animal Forest 













The guppy, also called the millionfish due to its rapid breeding, is one of the most popular freshwater aquarium fish species in the world. It is native to Barbados, Brazil, Guyana, Netherlands Antilles, Trinidad and Tobago, the US Virgin Islands and Venezuela. The fish was discovered in 1866 in Trinidad by Robert John Lechmere Guppy, hence the name, and the latin name was originally put forward by Albert Günther as Girardinus guppii. However it had already been described under P. reticulata, and G. guppii has become a Junior synonym, but the common name still continues to dedicate its finder. Poeciliata is from "Poecile" referring to its small size, and reticulata comes from "Reticulate" referring to its vast network of patterns.



