Hammerhead shark

Sphyrna zygaena





Hammerhead shark
シュモクザメ Shumokuzame










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
#54
#62
#67
#73







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
8,000 Bells




Size
Shadow size


108.40 in. 2.6 m
Huge (with fin)




Time of year
Time of day


June to September
4pm to 9am



Scientific name
Sphyrna zygaena


Family
Sphyrnidae - Hammerhead sharks



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)



The hammerhead shark (シュモクザメ, Shumokuzame?) is a large fish that always appears in the ocean during the summer months, between June and September. Between the hours of 8 pm and 4 am, this is the only shark that can be found. The hammerhead shark has always sold for 8,000 Bells, except in the PAL versions of Wild World, where it's sold for 12,000 Bells.

Due to its scarceness it is one of the few fish Chip will not eat.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the hammerhead shark can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo! Indeed, WOO hoo! A hammerhead shark! The fin of the hammerhead shark is used in some foreign cooking, eh wot? Indeed, it is used in a delightful delicacy called shark's-fin soup! This dish is usually quite pricey because of all that goes into its preparation. Why, it takes three days merely to reconstitute the dried shark's fin! After THAT, the chef must pick out the skin and cartilage with tweezers! Only after all that can it be used as an ingredient. THAT is a just cost!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Ah, the hammerhead shark, also, I believe, known simply as the hammerhead in certain circles. The hammer-shaped head is thought to give this shark a great sense of its environment...like radar. Compared to other sharks, this one wears a bit of a daft expression that some people find charming!"

The hammerhead can then be found "pacing" in the back tank, much like the blue marlin.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"The hammerhead shark is a shark with a head like a hammer, which is what you'd expect. However, despite being sharks, they are actually fairly laid back, which is not what you'd expect. With their eyes positioned on the two ends of their "hammer," they can see in almost all directions. Oddly, their nose holes are located right next to their eyes on their hammer section. They have a number of small holes on the front and lower portions of their heads as well. These holes allow them to detect prey, even fish hiding below them and out of sight. While they eat a nice array of fish, it seems that rays are their favorite source of food. Rays, beware!"

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The hammerhead shark is known for its distinctive, hammer-shaped head, hence the name. Er, obviously. Anyhoot, this oddly shaped head allows the beast to see 360 degrees around itself, from top to bottom. Imagine being able to see so widely! You could check for untied shoelaces AND imminent rain simultaneously!"

「シュモクザメを　釣り上げた！ハンマーみたいな　頭だー！」 —New Horizons 











The smooth hammerhead's name comes from its hammer-like bone structure from its head, which lacks any sort of central indentation. It is a rather common hammerhead shark, and the second largest after the great hammerhead. Its fins are valued for the delicacy shark fin soup.



