Happy Room Academy

Housing association



Happy Room Academy














Service
Housing association


Provides
House evaluations, awards, model room CF


Hours
9:00 A.M. - 9:00 P.M.



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF


 The Happy Room Academy (HRA), is a housing association that is run by Lyle. The HRA inspects the player's house each Sunday if the player chooses to sign up, and score it depending on the furniture inside. Ways of boosting the player's points are by placing rare or expensive pieces of furniture in the player's house, or completing a furniture series. These each give out point bonuses (see below).
The Happy Room Academy is mainly made to help the player design their home, but if they score a lot of points there will surely be a reward (see below).

The Happy Room Academy was replaced by Happy Home Academy in New Leaf.

Spotlight items are worth +151 points. Those which are also lucky are worth +7,777 points.

These items must be Redd items, not Nook items sold at Redd's tent.

The player can earn special gifts by obtaining a certain amount of HRA points. 
One story model, two story model and mansion model.

Lyle welcomes the player to HRA in City Folk.
Letter of congratulation on getting 150,000 points in City Folk.
The HRA headquarters is located in the City, where they player can view their friends scores via Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. Lyle now works in this building.

On Sunday the HRA sends the player their evaluation results on academy paper. If they don't want to receive the results by mail, the player can ask Lyle at the HRA headquarters to stop sending them; and by asking him the same question afterwards, he will send them again. The player can always check their HRA points with Lyle.

What seems to be the easiest and possibly cheapest way to collect HRA points is to acquire as many lucky items as possible - 10 lucky items alone gets the player well over 75,000 points.

Lyle tells the player that there is no model room.
There is sometimes no Model Room.
At the back of the HRA is the model room, a room chosen by Lyle every month that satisfies a certain theme, it can be the room of the player or a villager. Sometimes, there is no model room, and the area for the model room is replaced by an empty 4x4 room.

Below is a brief description of Happy Home Academy. For more information, click here.

In New Leaf, Happy Room Academy is replaced with the Happy Home Academy, which can be found inside of Nook's Homes, which is located on Main Street. 

To unlock it, the player must pay off their debt to Tom Nook, and their tent must be upgraded to a house. The player will then be introduced to Lyle personally by Tom Nook, and then Lyle will give a brief explanation of what Happy Home Academy is. Along with this, the Happy Home Showcase will also be unlocked on Main Street. 

Different from City Folk, Lyle now will personally tell the player their score each day they come in to ask and will give the player advice on what to do to improve their score, such as where to put certain colored objects, or to include bugs and fish in their décor. The player's score will changed when his "team" evaluates it at 6:00 am each day. He will also tell the player how many points are ideal for their house, which increases with every expansion.

When it is first unlocked the Happy Home Academy rates only the interior of the player's home. However, once the player finishes the last home expansion they will receive a visit from Lyle, who will inform the player that they can now choose to participate in theme challenges which offer points for both the exterior and interior of the player's home.



20,000 points for all 10 pieces of furniture in a series.

25,000 points for all 10 pieces of furniture in a series, and either matching wallpaper or carpet.

30,000 points for all 10 pieces of furniture in a series, plus both the matching wallpaper and carpet.

3,000 points just for a theme's flooring or wallpaper.

3,000 x number of pieces of furniture in the room which match the carpet or wallpaper.

1,000 points for each piece in the set.

The player has a bed, table, chair, wardrobe and dresser in their home.



