Hermit crab

Coenobita cavipes





Hermit crab
ヤドカリ Yadokari









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
#44
–
–
#48
–
#70







Location
Price


Crawling on beach
200 Bells (AFe+),1,000 Bells  (NL, NH)




Size
Available in rain


45 mm
Unknown




Time of year
Time of day


March to DecemberAFe+, All yearNL-NH
All dayAFe+,7pm-8amNL-NH



Scientific name
Coenobita cavipes


Family
Conenobitidae



Appearances
AFe+, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★), During rain in AFe+: Uncommon (★★★)



The hermit crab, Coenobita cavipes, is a type of crab found in a few games in the Animal Crossing series. It originally appeared in the Japanese exclusive Animal Forest e+, was absent in both Wild World and City Folk, but returns in New Leaf and New Horizons.

It initially appears as a simple shell on the beach, but when approached it will raise up and skitter away. It will retreat if left alone for too long, and it is generally more common during rain, particularly in Animal Forest e+. The hermit crab is able to jump into water if it travels too close. In New Leaf, the hermit crab's shell has a purple hue and a different hole shape compared to a normal shell.

In New Leaf, the hermit crab is notable for being a sea creature despite being classified as a "bug", though it cannot be found in the sea by diving. Because it is the only bug exclusive to Tortimer Island in this game, it is available all-year round in the island's full-year summer climate.

It is more abundant from the month of June until September in Animal Forest e+.

Hermit Crab in museum in Animal Forest e+
When donated to the museum it appears on the left side on the sand with the other crabs and the Birdwing.

In New Leaf, an information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Hermit crabs live in empty shells they can fit their bodies into. As they grow, they find bigger shells. They're quite picky about each new shell and first measure the opening with their claws. The shells they choose usually fit well, and they'll sometimes fight one another over ownership rights."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The hermit crab is not an insect... Though it most certainly resembles one. Blech! It looks much like a spider- what with its creepy eyes and crawly legs- but is, in fact, a crustacean. As such, the hermit crab has 10 legs and also wears a shell. But it doesn't grow this shell itself. It slips its soft body into shells left behind by snails, you see, and moves into ever-larger ones as it grows. (Talk about a strange way to make a home.)"

「ヤドカリを　つかまえた！　ひきこもってちゃ　ダメ！」 —Animal Forest e+ and New Leaf



A hermit crab in real life
In Japan, hermit crabs are known as yadokari (ヤドカリ?). They are a territorial species of crustacean that is popular as a pet in some places. They are often found on beaches in large groups in tropical reasons; the waves wash up groups of them at a time. As they grow, they discard their too-small shell and seek out a new one.




