Horned dynastid

Trypoxylus dichotoma





Horned dynastid
カブトムシ Kabuto-mushi









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
#29
#27
#45
#52
#59
–
#62







Location
Price


On trees
1,350 Bells (NL)100 Bells (PC)




Size
Available in rain


26-95 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


July to August
5pm to 8am



Scientific name
Trypoxylus dichotoma


Family
Scarabaeidae - Scarab beetles



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The horned dynastid (カブトムシ, Kabuto-mushi?) is a uncommon bug found in all games. Prior to New Leaf, it was known as the dynastid beetle. It appears between the months of July and August, between 5pm and 8am. They are similar to a Hercules Beetle because of their shape. The horned dynastid is relatively uncommon, but due to its nocturnal nature it will spawn more frequently during the night, particularly between 7pm and 8am where a majority of other bugs do not appear.

"They're called beetles, wot? The lugs of the insect world. Insects with armor plating their backs, you know. Their armor, it... opens up, revealing wings. Which they use to fly! It's really quite unnatural. Then, there's that thin, membrane-like covering where their heads connect to their bodies. Most foul!"

"Do tell, [Player Name], have you ever seen a dynastid beetle's larva? Oh, no trouble at all if you haven't, I assure you! If you had, we might speak of them, and then I would recall how vile they look. Let's forget it, shall we?"

"The dynastid beetle has a reputation as king of the forest, but this king is not without enemies, eh wot? Many species hunt this beetle. Examples include moles, crows, and owls... WOT WOT?!"

In New Leaf, an information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Horned dynastids are part of the scarab family. Their horns are actually part of their exoskeleton. Horned dynastids don't have a nose or ears, but they can sense smells with their antennae. They are also able to feel the minor vibrations of sounds traveling in the air using thin hair on their bodies. They are fairly loud when flying, plus they emit a rather sour odor, so they are hard not to notice."

It can be found in the top terrace of the bug exhibit, on the middle Oak Tree.

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The horned dynastid's head is shaped like a samurai warrior's helmet, hootie-hoo! It would be a most impressive fact if their large size wasn't so horrifying! Adult males use their huge horned heads for fighting and digging, while the females have no such need. As for their larvae and pupae, they too are quite large and feed on rotting wood at a tremendous pace. A foul feast, indeed!"











Real horned dynastid
The name Dynastid is a reference to its family (Dynastidae) or subfamily (Dynastinae) depending on the source; the taxonomy of these beetles has long been challenged. In the case of being placed as a subfamily within the Scarab Beetle family Scarabeidae they are probably better off called Dynastinid Beetles.

Instead of calling the horned dynastid it is better known as the japanese rhinoceros beetle, this Rhinoceros beetle starts out as a very large larvae, the size of an ordinary caterpillar. At middle stage, it earns a more toughened look, even though it still has a caterpillar-like rear. In Asian life, it is sometimes treasured as a delicacy, preferred fried. Like many other beetles in Japan, they are frequently found as pets.



