Horned elephant

Megasoma elephas





Horned elephant
ゾウカブト Zoukabuto









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#47
#54
#61
–
#64







Location
Price


On palm trees
8,000 Bells




Size
Available in rain


54 - 90 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


July to AugustJune to August (NL)
7pm to 8am (WW,CF)  5pm to 8am (NL) (peak 11pm-8am)



Scientific name
Megasoma elephas


Family
Scarabaeidae - Scarab Beetlessub.Dynastinae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The horned elephant (ゾウカブト, zoukabuto?) is a rare bug in the Animal Crossing series, that are most commonly found on the island. Prior to New Leaf, it was known as the elephant beetle. It is a large, dark-yellow beetle found on Palm Trees during the Summer at night, between the months of July and August. It is worth 8,000 Bells.

As with all bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the elephant beetle can be donated to the Museum followed by a small talk by Blathers, the curator.

"I wonder what elephant beetles were called before there were elephants? No, wait, I don't wonder! I don't even care! Hoo hoo! Well, moving on…"

After donation, the elephant beetle can be found at the bottom of the left palm tree in the exhibit on the left of the first room of the bug area.

"True to its namesake, the elephant beetle is among the heaviest of all the dynastid beetles. As you might imagine, with parents that big, the babies are also accordingly huge. About the size of your fist! Such foulness! Just think of those monstrous larvae! The horror of it all!"

In New Leaf an information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Horned elephants are some of the heaviest dynastid beetles in the world. The thin yellow hair that covers their bodies makes them rather attractive to mates and collectors. Their horns resemble an elephant raising its trunk, which is how they got their name. They're already big in their larval stage, but by their pupal stage, they are the size of a person's hand."

The elephant beetle can be found on the Island in the middle tier of the bug section, located on a palm tree next to the tarantula and scorpion, in the same section housing the rafflesia.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The horned elephant beetle certainly lives up to its namesake. Not only does the horn on its head resemble the trunk of an elephant... It is also one of the heaviest beetles in the world! Size aside, allow me to reveal the real reason I find horned elephant beetles so repugnant... Their backs are covered in a fine coat of hair! Hirsute beetles! Hoot! The horror!"









TBA

A real-life horned elephant
A real-life horned elephant
The elephant beetle is a type of rhinoceros beetle that can grow between 7 to 12 centimetres (2.75 to 4.75 inches) in length; males are sometimes bigger and can grow around 2 to 3 times bigger than the females. Living in the rain-forests of South America, as well as Central America and southern Mexico, these beetles are mainly active at night and mainly feed on sap, bark, and ripened fallen fruit. Elephant beetle larvae develop in large decaying logs and take up to 3 years to develop into adult beetles. The lifespan of these beetles is around 1 to 6 months. However, elephant beetle populations have been depleting by the destruction of the rain-forests, which has reduced their grounds for mating. They are called kiwi fruits by hobbyists due to their kiwi looking like body , when they are old their bristle will fall making them being low quality specimens. Some hobbyist will decide to kill them after their emergence of a month.



