Horse mackerel

Trachurus japonicus





Horse mackerel
アジ Aji










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
#38
#42
#47
#52
#57







Location
Price


Ocean, Tortimer Island
120 Bells (AFe+) 150 Bells (WW, CF, NL, NH) 10 Bells (PC)




Size
Shadow size


14.35 in. 35 cm
Medium (AFe+), Small (WW, CF, NL, NH)




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Trachurus japonicus


Family
Carangidae - The jacks and pompanos



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The horse mackerel, is a common fish that can be found in the ocean. Like the sea bass, it can be caught at any given time, month, or season. It was introduced in Animal Forest e+.

As with all fish caught in the Animal Crossing series, the horse mackerel can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Tell me <player>, how do you like to eat your fried horse mackerel? With tartar sauce? Vinegar? ...Ah! Cocktail sauce?! Hoo, I see. Fascinating."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Horse mackerel are not at all related to horses... Rather obvious, I should think... It's quite a strange name, given how many fish are related to this one, like yellowtail and amberjack."

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"With their appealing flavor, horse mackerel have long been a cheap and common food source. However, in certain regions, they have actually been branded as something of a luxury dish. They have tough scales on both sides of their bodies that must be removed before preparing. Though small, they are formidable carnivores. Since they go after bait, they are popular with fishers."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Supposedly the horse mackerel derives its name from a—false—myth about its strength as a swimmer. The gist of it is that these fish are so powerful underwater that smaller fish can ride them as steeds! It's absurd, of course. Where would these alleged fish jockeys attach a saddle, much less horseshoes? One does wish that people would construct their legends with a BIT more scientific plausibility! "













A real-life horse mackerel
The Japanese jack mackerel (alternatively Japanese horse mackerel) is a pelagic and commercially important fish common around the coastline and seas of Japan. The name horse mackerel alludes to a theory that other fish could hitch a ride on these mackerel and travel long distances while conserving energy. It can occur at a depth range of 0 – 275 m, but is most often between 50 and 275 metres. It is a vulnerable species and easily overfished.



