Jingle

Male



Jingle
ジングル Jinguru







Gender
Male


Species
Deer (Reindeer)



Service
Presents



Birthday
December 24th (Capricorn)


Coffee
N/A



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, CF, NL, HHD, PC, NH


“Happy holidays! I'm Jingle, the black-nosed reindeer! Isn't this the best time of the year, kid?”
― Jingle, New Leaf
Jingle (ジングル, Jinguru?) is a reindeer character in Animal Crossing series. He appears once a year on the 24th of December for Toy Day, an event in the Animal Crossing series in place of Christmas and/or any similar celebrations.

Jingle's artwork in Animal Crossing (GameCube)
“Happy holidays! I'm Jingle, the black-nosed reindeer!”
― Jingle, Animal Crossing
In Animal Crossing, Jingle can be found wandering around town starting at 8:00 PM on Toy Day (December 24th). He needs to be approached on five separate occasions to receive an item of his series (talking to him more than once on the same encounter does not work), also asking questions to determine what item the player receives such as flooring, wallpaper and furniture all from the Jingle series (answering "Foldable Things" gets the player the Jingle shirt, "Woven Things" gets the player the Jingle carpet, "Printed Things" gets the player Jingle wallpaper, and "Big Things" gets the player Jingle furniture). He only gives out one present per villager, but there is a way to receive more as listed below:

To receive more presents from Jingle, the player must change their shirt each time they receive a gift, out of Jingle's sight so he does not see them. If successful, he will assume the player is a different person. The player only needs to talk to him twice (once to determine the gift, and another time to receive it). However, doing this for long enough will make him realize the player is the same person. Fortunately, he will not ask for the furniture back and will simply laugh.

For the list of his conversations, see Jingle Dialogue (GCN).

Talking to Jingle outside
Jingle will only go into houses when the occupants are outside
“I'm a happy little reindeer!”
― Jingle, City Folk
In City Folk, Jingle can be found wandering around town starting at 8 PM on Toy Day (December 24). During this time, he may also be found inside other villagers' houses, but only in the ones with their lights off (which indicates that the villager is not inside). This is the only time in the game the player can visit a villager's house without them inside. In one of the homes, Jingle will be inside dropping off presents. Upon talking to him, he will offer the player a present, either one they can lean on or one they can walk on, with further options of huge things. These simply respectively mean wallpaper (lean on), carpet (walk on), and furniture (huge things), specifically furniture from the Jingle series. Sometimes he will claim he is too tired to give the player a gift. Like in Animal Crossing, he will only give one present per person, but there is a way to obtain more furniture, as mentioned below:

To receive more presents from Jingle, the player only needs to change their face accessory or headgear (hat) instead of a shirt to obtain more items of the Jingle series.

In New Leaf, instead of receiving presents, the player dresses up as Santa and hands out presents. The Santa outfit is sold in the month of December and is easy to obtain. The outfit includes the Santa hat, Santa shirt, Santa pants, Santa beard, and Santa boots. If the player finds Jingle on Toy Day, he will tell the player that the villagers would enjoy getting their presents from Santa and will give the player a magic sack full of items. After Christmas, the magic bag will turn into a regular bag. Throughout the month of December, villagers will drop hints on which gifts they want. It is the player's job to give the villagers the perfect gift so that they can be happy. While dressed up like Santa, the villagers will recognize the player as Santa himself and not as the player. Once the bag is empty, the player must return to Jingle and he will give the player a Christmas wreath as a reward. If the player delivers at least seven presents correctly, Jingle will mail the player his photograph the next day. Unlike in older games, Jingle will not give the player the Jingle series, and instead the player can buy the furniture from the Nooklings' Store during the month of December.

Jingle was confirmed to arrive to New Horizons in an Animal Crossing update video. He requests the player for wrapping paper and gives them the recipe to do so, giving him three festive wrapping paper rewards the player with Toy Day stockings. He then gives the player a magic bag and tells them to give every villager a gift. If the player rewards half of the villagers with gifts, they get the recipe to the gift pile; however, if they reward every villager a gift, they get the Toy Day sleigh. If the player puts the Toy Day stockings in their home, and waits until the 25th, they'll be rewarded with Jingle's photo in there.

Jingle gives a complete set of furniture, which the Happy Room Academy rate very highly.

All of the furniture is red, white, and green, resembling festive colors. The Jingle shirt is not a part of the exchange in City Folk, but can be bought from the Able Sisters. It is like any other shirt, so once it is available it won't appear again for a while.



