Killifish

Oryzias latipes





Killifish
メダカ Medaka










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
#35
#35
#10
#10
#10
#10







Location
Price


Holding Pond
300 Bells10 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


1.6 in. 4 cm
Tiny




Time of year
Time of day


April to August
All day



Scientific name
Oryzias latipes


Family
Adrianichthyidae - Ricefishes



Appearances
AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The killifish is a tiny fish found in the holding pond between the months of April and August at any time of the day. In the GCN games, it is also found in the river.

If given to Wendell in City Folk, the player will receive a Water Puddle pattern.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the killifish can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo hoo! Hullo, little fishy! Aren't we a tiny little fellow! Adorable! Why, I believe it stuck its tongue out at me! Hoo-rumph! Nevertheless, we'll take care of the little blighter! I'll keep an eye on this mischief-maker myself!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"I heard that killifish recipes are common all around the world. Sadly, I've seen nary one, not that I searched... I haven't a clue as to their taste, even. It IS a fish, though, I can say that!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"...Hoo, here's a morsel of interest--killifish are often used in observational studies... This is because they are translucent, wot? Indeed, their innards can be seen clearly from without! In earlier times, folks used killifish to discover how a body processed food. Well, suffice to say, the killifish is a marvelous little wonder that gives people a true eyeful!"

The killifish can be found in the left tube tank.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Killifish are small, travel in schools, and are known for having eyes higher up on their faces than others. They swim in shallow areas in rivers and mostly eat bugs that float on the surface of the water. This is why they have mouths as high up their faces as their eyes, making them effective hunters. Being the same temperature as the water they inhabit, getting grabbed by warm hands can shock them."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Ah, the magnificent killifish! Did you know there are over 1,000 different species? My own favorite killifish species are the mangrove, which can live on land for weeks, breathing air! And the mummichog, the first fish ever brought to space. I wonder if the killifish you've brought me is related to either those intrepid explorers?"













A real life killifish


It is unclear what sort of killifish appears in Animal Crossing series. Judging by the size estimated within the built-in encyclopedia, it could be a Moonlight Medaka or "Japanese Rice Fish." However, all killifish have common traits, noticeably, their translucent skin which has made them an interest in biology due to the visibility of their digestive system. They are a harmless, common, aquarium fish.



