King salmon

Oncorhynchus tshawytscha





King salmon
キングサーモン Kingu saamon










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
#28
#29
#31
#32







Location
Price


Ocean Mouth (1st-14th)River (15th-30th)
1,800 Bells




Size
Shadow size


78.20 in. 2 m
Very Large (WW, NH), Huge (CF, NL)




Time of year
Time of day


September
All day



Scientific name
Oncorhynchus tshawytscha


Family
Salmonidae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The king salmon is a large freshwater fish in Wild World, City Folk, New Leaf, and New Horizons. 
It appears during September.

In New Leaf, the king salmon is strictly found by the beach-side waterfall, either appearing above it or below it depending on the town layout. In Wild World and City Folk, the king salmon occurs in two different areas depending on the day of the month, like the regular Salmon. Between the 1st and the 15th of September the King Salmon can be found in the ocean, near the river mouth. After the 15th, the King Salmon will move up the river, and can be found anywhere in it. This mimics the behavior of real life salmon, which move up rivers to breed. In Pocket Camp, an even larger version of the fish, called Giant King Salmon, can sometimes be caught. It is the only one of the "King" version of fish to not start off the "King" modifier, instead starting with "Giant", presumably due to already being called a King Salmon as it is.

As with all fish in the Animal Crossing series series, the king salmon can be donated to the museum aquarium by talking to Blathers, who will follow up the donation with a small talk about it. In Wild World, it can be found in the top-most tank. In City Folk, it can be found in the middle-right tank.

Blathers will say this upon donation:

"The king salmon will swim upstream to spawn, as most people know... What many DON'T know, however, is that it eats nothing while en route! As such, when king salmon begin their journey at the mouth of a river... They're all fatties! Think upon that the next time you eat an entire cake before working out, wot!"

Blathers will say the following upon the donation:

"...Hoo, quite impressive! This one put up quite a fight, I should think? The regal king salmon dwarfs lesser salmon with an overall length of up to 60 inches, eh wot? Its size makes catching it with a net difficult, so most people rely on a fishing rod to catch the king!"

"King salmon grow to about twice the size of regular salmon, which really helps them embody the name. This size essentially makes them the actual kings of salmon, though they are also called chinook salmon. In some regions, they return to the river in spring or summer and live there until spawning in the fall. In rare cases, king salmons' meat will be white, but these are not as popular since pink is the standard."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The king salmon didn't get its name from nothing. This stately fish can weigh in at up to 130 pounds! It's clear why it's referred to as the king of salmon. I imagine even the mightiest net can catch no more than a few at a time. I must say it's a miracle to me that you didn't get dragged out to sea by this one, wot!"













Better known as the Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha), this fish is the largest Pacific salmon, often growing over 75lbs. They are very beautiful and occur in two phases, green-and-red and silver, which they exhibit either in the river and in the ocean respectively. Typical with large salmon, they are known to be strong fighters. A few examples show fish over 95lbs and 6 feet, but the majority are 2–3 feet (30 to 40lbs). They are native to the Pacific coast of the Americas, from Alaska to California in the north, as well as Asian rivers from northern Japan to the Palyavaam River in Arctic northeast Siberia. They have also been introduced to other parts of the world, including North America's Great Lakes, New Zealand, and Patagonia.



