Loach

Misgurnus anguillicaudatus  (Cantor, 1842)





Loach
ドジョウ Dojou










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#11
#11
#11
#11
#14
#14
#16
#17







Location
Price


River
300 Bells  400 Bells (NH)  1,500 Bells (PC)




Size
Shadow size


8.60 in. 21 cm
Tiny (AC, WW) Small (CF, NL, NH)




Time of year
Time of day


March to May
All day



Scientific name
Misgurnus anguillicaudatus  (Cantor, 1842)


Family
Cobitidae- True Loaches



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The loach is a fish found in the river at all times of the day during the months of March through to May, making it the only fish restricted to the season of Spring. It is much harder to find during May.

The loach can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers. During the donation, Blathers will say the following about the loach:

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot!"

"Hoo! You gave me a start! I thought you said "roach"! ...Hoo hoo! What a relief! When I hear loach, I think of a friend of mine who makes smoothies of them. It sounds repellent, I know, and to be honest, it is. Hoo, I say! The stench!"

"The loach is a slippery, somewhat vile-looking fish...but in truth, it can be quite useful, wot? For ages, some cultures used the loach as a poison treatment. It also tastes great in a hot pot... A bit of wisdom for the day, eh wot? One must never judge a person, or a fish, by its appearance..."

The loach can be found in the middle-left tank.

"Loaches are rather small fish that make their habitats in rivers and muddy water. They have 10 whiskers around their mouths with taste buds built in for tasting sweetness and bitterness. Loaches can breathe through their intestines as well as their gills - a rather unique quality of the species. They push their mouths above the surface of the water to inhale, exhaling through their tail regions. Making stew with loaches and burdock root is known to improve stamina, or so people believe."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Loaches are a large group of bottom-feeding freshwater fish. Because there are so many species, it is difficult to generalize about them all. The one thing they all have in common is perhaps their most unappealing trait; the name 'loach.' Repellent, isn't it? They should have just called it the 'cockloach' and been done with it, eh wot! Loach...loach... It just tastes terrible in the beak."

A single loach can be found in the pond tank in the museum.



In Animal Forest e+'Animal Forest e+​Animal Forest e+​, text that was previously only in hiragana has had some words converted to kanji.









It is unclear what type of loach appears in Animal Crossing, due to the vast varieties of loaches that exist, but it is most likely the Chinese Weatherfish, also known as Dojo Loach (it may also be one of the Acantopsis genus). The fish in City Folk appears to be a different species.



