Lost Property

N/A

Looking in the Lost Property on  Wild World
The Lost and Found contains items previously dropped on the ground or buried, which might have been removed to free up space for the construction of a neighbor's house that had just moved in, for the expansion of Tom Nook's store, or Redd/Katrina's tent. Various props added when a special character visits a town, will take up some space, which any space occupied by an item, those items will be moved to the lost property to make room for those structures. 

Items most often moved due to space constraints are usually found dropped or buried by default, such as pitfall seeds, fossils, and fruits. These types of items are common in the Lost and Found. Various randomly generated odds and ends such as furniture and clothing are also found in the Lost Property. 

Lost Property in Animal Crossing is looked after by Booker inside the Police Station. It is unknown where these items come from. There are twenty-one spots for items to be placed in, although it typically only holds two to five items. In this version Lost Property and items in the Dump are exactly the same but the ways of getting them are different.

In Wild World and City Folk, the lost property can be accessed by talking to Booker inside the Gate. The player is allowed to take any of the items, free of charge. The most items the player can find is ten. It usually contains stationery and pitfall seeds, but can also hold furniture and clothing.  

There is a Recycling Bin in the Town Hall in both games which also holds similar items, although the items are discarded Mondays and Thursdays at 6 AM. 

In New Leaf, the lost property is unlocked once the Police Station is built. The Police Station is a public works project that costs 264,000 Bells. Depending on whether the player chooses the modern or classic Police Station, either Copper or Booker may guard it. Almost all the items there haven't actually been lost, and instead randomly generated. The only exception to this is when an item is laying on the ground, and either a new villager's house, public works project, or a special visitor (for example, Crazy Redd's, Katrina's tent, Nat's or Chip's tourney tent, Franklin's table, etc.) is set on top of that item, it will be sent to the lost and found . 

New Leaf is also the first game to have only one way of getting "lost" or "thrown out" items. This is one of two ways to acquire a rare tricky pitfall seed. A player can only access their own lost and found. Another player cannot access another player's lost and found.

