Lottie

Female



Lottie
タクミ Takumi




“Let's get you into a new house today!”



Gender
Female


Species
Otter



Service
Tutorial Instruction, Happy Home Network HHDSecret Storeroom, Touch-Screen Interior Design NLHappy Homeroom Instructor, Judge PCTutorial Instruction (?), Paradise PlanningHHP



Birthday
September 12th (Virgo)


Coffee
N/A



Appearances
NL, HHD, PC, NH


Lottie (タクミ, Takumi?) is a character that made her first appearance in Happy Home Designer. She works for Nook's Homes, and is also Lyle's niece. She works in Paradise Planning in Happy Home Paradise, a paid DLC of New Horizons.

Lottie is a pink otter with a white face, shiny brown nose, and small eyes with three eyelashes on each. She has brown hair tied up in a bun with a pale blue hair-tie and a plumeria. She wears her Paradise Planning dress, and pale brown sandals with blue straps. She also wears a blue bracelet on her left paw. If the player has designed her house or invited her to the Roost, they can visit her and find her still wearing her uniform she currently wears in Happy Home Paradise.

Lottie's provides the tutorial tasks for the player, first teaching them how to design homes using her own house as a testing ground. She later assists them with learning new features and with different tutorial houses.

When the player is done with their first client, Lottie allows them to go outside of Nook's Homes to scout clients out for themselves (though they are select clients at this part of the game, they are not yet randomized).

When all the pre-set clients have had their houses designed Lottie will be done telling the player tutorial information and simply assist them with getting any other client set up. If the player owns Lottie's amiibo or amiibo Card, they can also redesign her house.

Lottie was added to New Leaf in the Welcome amiibo update. She gives the player a Nook's Homes model if the player owns Happy Home Designer. The day a secret storeroom is added to the player's house, Lottie can be seen standing next to Lyle at the HHA desk. She will then host a seminar that teaches the player how to move furniture around using the touchscreen.

In New Leaf and Pocket Camp, Lottie works for the Happy Home Academy, while in Happy Home Designer, she works for Nook's Homes, similar to how Digby and Lyle started working at Nook's Homes in HHD. 

Lottie was added to New Horizons in the Happy Home Paradise paid DLC on November 5, 2021. Her role in Happy Home Paradise remains similar to Happy Home Designer, assisting the player with the design of holiday homes with the help of Niko and Wardell.

Lottie is a playable character in amiibo Festival, available when the Lottie amiibo is scanned on the Wii U. Sometimes when the player playing as Lottie lands on an event square in the Amiibo Festival Board Game mode, a random event specifically related to Lottie may appear.

Lottie has 6 unlockable costumes for the game, unlocked through leveling up the Lottie amiibo:



