Mabel

Female



Mabel
きぬよ Kinuyo




“A stitch in time saves nine… more stitches.”



Gender
Female


Species
Hedgehog



Service
Able Sisters clerk



Birthday
May 22nd (Gemini)


Coffee
N/A



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, HHD, PC, NH, Gekijōban Dōbutsu no Mori


“You come back now, OK?”
― Mabel, City Folk
Mabel Able (きぬよ, Kinuyo?) is a special character in the Animal Crossing series, co-owning the Able Sisters tailor shop with her older sister, Sable. She is the more charismatic of the two sisters and assists customers with their purchases. Mabel chastises Sable when she offends the player or refuses to talk to them.

Mabel is a blue hedgehog with brown-orange cheeks and black eyes, eyebrows, and a black nose. Like her sisters, she has no visible mouth, and instead visibly talks by moving her nose. She wears a white and green gingham apron (her favorite pattern) and has a head full of large, spiky bristles.

She does not directly speak about her past; it is only told by Sable once the player befriends her. She may bicker from time to time with Sable (mostly about who does most of the work within the business). She rarely mentions her parents, but from what is learned through Sable, she was too young to know who they were at the time of the car crash which killed them. She was raised by her sister, from the time she was an infant.

Mabel works at the shop Able Sisters, along with her older sister Sable, as a store clerk. She helps the player design clothing patterns and sells the player clothes, umbrellas, and accessories.

In January, Sable will get depressed, much to Mabel's bewilderment. Eventually, after talking to Sable enough during the month, she reveals a huge secret: she and Tom Nook were best friends before he moved to the city. Naturally, due to Mabel's age, she knows little of the subject but does have experiences that include the subjects. The following can be matched with Sable's statements (to get an accurate picture):

― Mable on the cedar box Sable was sent, Wild World
“Yeah, so there's this pair of scissors that my Sis has been using forever, right?  When they got too dull to use, I said she should buy a new pair, but... It was the weirdest thing! When I did, she completely flipped out on me! I know it's important to take care of your things, but... That's ridiculous!”
― Mable on Sable's old scissors, Wild World
“ Well, lately, at night, my sis has been sitting at the window, staring at the night sky. She says that in the winter, a certain constellation becomes visible... It's kinda weird.. the stuff my sis knows about... You know, constellations and meanings of flowers, that kinda stuff...”
― Mable on Sable's knowledge of her constellation, Wild World

Like many other special visitors and characters, Mabel appears in Gekijōban Dōbutsu no Mori alongside Sable in the Able Sisters store. She has a minor role in the film, only appearing when Ai, the main character, enters the store to deliver a few boxes from Tom Nook.

Her role in City Folk is virtually unchanged; she now assists the player with making PRO designs. When talking to her, she soon learns that she may, in fact, have an older sister called Labelle, a worker in GracieGrace - a store in the city. Mabel has no contact with Labelle, due to her having an argument with Sable, who felt she abandoned the family when the parents died. Mabel wishes to get them talking again.

Mabel's role remains unchanged, as she works in the Able Sisters along with her sisters Sable and Labelle. The player can obtain a mannequin from her if the player purchases 51 clothing items in the Able Sisters.

Mabel is a playable character in amiibo Festival, available when the Mabel amiibo is scanned on the Wii U. Sometimes when the player playing as Mabel lands on an event square in the Amiibo Festival Board Game mode, a random event specifically related to Mabel may appear.

Mabel has 6 unlockable costumes for the game, unlocked through leveling up the Mabel amiibo:

Mabel is initially met when Nook's Cranny is completed, talking to Timmy and Tommy. From then on, she can be met once a week in the plaza, running a small clothing shop. Upon her third visit, she will ask the player about opening the Able Sisters shop on the island. When complete, she runs the shop with her sister Sable. Her visit is required to upgrade Nook's Cranny.

Should the player attempt to invite Mabel to the campsite by scanning her, she will have the following to say:

"Hello, you've got Mabel! Ohh, Player. What's up? Whoa! A campsite?! How fun! Thanks for inviting me!Unfortunately, though...I've got my claws full, so I probably cant't take advantage of your offer. Sorry!"



