Merry

Female



Merry
さっち Sacchi




“A smile increases your face value.”


Gender
Female


Personality
Peppy


Species
Cat


Birthday
June 29th (Cancer)



Initial phrase
mweee にゃん (nyan)


Initial clothes
Daisy Tee AFe+-PCDream sweater NH



Home request
An artsy room for sketching. HHDA Spot to Model Myself HHP



Skill
Vaulting


Goal
Figure Skater



Coffee
Blue Mountain,The regular amount of milk,Two spoonfuls of sugar


Favorite song
DJ K.K. CF-NLI Love You HHDNeapolitan NHChillwave HHP


Appearances
AFe+, CF, NL, HHD, aF, PC, NH


“Waaaaaaah! I'll never be as cool as the scary giant bird, mweee!”
― Merry, on Festivale, City Folk
Merry (さっち, Sacchi?) is a peppy cat villager from the Animal Crossing series. She was originally in Animal Forest e+, where she was exclusive to her e-Card that came with the game, but did not appear in Wild World. She reappears in City Folk and New Leaf. Her name is a synonym for happy, based upon her Japanese name, which means "happiness", and reflected in her permanent smile. It is also pronounced similarly to (but not the same as) the name "Mary" (except in dialects which have the Mary-marry-merry sound merger). 

Merry is featured on the album cover of K.K. Soul. She has the fashion hobby.

Merry in Animal Forest e+
Merry is a creamy white cat with short, brown hair that resembles bangs, and big, curved black eyes with two lashes. She has a small double chin, and her inner ears, dot nose, and blush is pink. Her mouth seems to smile all the time, regardless of her current mood. However, there is a slight difference between her smile and her frown. When she's sad or angry, her mouth is wider and more open compared to when she smiles. Whenever her mouth is open, small fangs are shown. She looks similar to Felicity, another cat villager. She initially wears a Dreamy sweater, but in older games she wore a Daisy Tee.

Peppy villagers appear to be in a good mood often and are easy to become friends with. As a peppy villager, Merry will have the tendency to over-react in conversations about trivial subjects, and will usually be over-excited to see the player or other villagers. This villager, like other peppy villagers, will rarely be discouraged from doing anything, including the usual hobbies. Peppy villagers dream of becoming famous in the future and read Ms. Nintendique, an unseen magazine read by snooty, normal, and other peppy villagers in the Animal Crossing series. Peppy villagers will also have a very short attention span, which means they soon forget some arguments or tasks given to the player which weren't completed. Merry may easily get upset in conversation when the wrong things are said. She will get along well with other villagers, particularly lazy, normal, jock, sisterly, and other peppy villagers, but she may annoy and upset cranky and snooty villagers, whose personalities differ to hers. Due to the nature of peppy villagers, she may mention how "old" or "boring" cranky villagers are compared to her opposing, upbeat personality.

In Animal Forest e+, Merry has the same furniture styling as Carrie's house, with the difference being that the wallpaper is the Mod Wall and the flooring is the Birch Flooring. She also has two Gyroids, the Mini Gargloid and the Tall Harmonoid.

In City Folk, Merry's house consists of a basic, plain, and simple house, with three chairs, The Green-econo chair, the Gold-econo chair, and the Ruby-econo chair, a Green Table with a tea set on it, along with a stove and a retro fridge, and a Tall Bowtoid. Merry does not have a stereo, but if she obtains one she will play DJ K.K. on it.

In New Leaf, Merry acquires some of the green furniture series. She has a tea set on her green table and a cream sofa. DJ K.K. will play on her stereo.

In New Horizons, all the furniture are the same except her stereo plays Neapolitan.

Merry was added to Pocket Camp in the March 24, 2018 update.

Merry's preferred theme is cute, and she primarily gives wood as a reward. Her profile reads:

Friendship Level: 3



