Monarch butterfly

Danaus plexippus





Monarch butterfly
オオカバマダラ Ookabamadara









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#5
#5
#5
–
#8







Location
Price


Flying
90 Bells140 Bells (NL, NH)10 Bells (PC)




Size
Available in rain


85 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


September to November
8am to 5pm 4am to 5pm NH



Scientific name
Danaus plexippus


Family
Nymphalidae - Admirals



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The monarch butterfly (オオカバマダラ, Ookabamadara?) is a common orange butterfly that occurs in the fall. In New Leaf monarchs also occur on the island year round.

It is one of six bugs (itself, the Cricket, the Pine Cricket, the Red Dragonfly, the Bell Cricket, and the Migratory Locust) that are limited to the autumn season from September onwards.

As with all fish and bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the monarch can be donated to the museum by talking to Blathers, who will give some information upon donation.

"The monarch butterfly got its regal name because of its orange coloring, wot? Yes, it reminded people of the king of England, aka William of Orange. To be perfectly honest, if I were His Highness, I'd be rather miffed! Blech! Truly, to have a filthy bug remind people of you... Absolutely appalling, wot!"

After donation, the monarch butterfly can be found resting on or flying around the flowers on the right of the first room of the bug area, along with the other butterflies.

Blathers will say this upon donating the monarch butterfly:

"Monarch butterflies are quite colorful, aren't they? ... As it happens, the colors indicate they're poisonous! I certainly start to feel queasy when I look at one. Though that happens with all bugs."

After donating a butterfly to the museum, it can be seen flying around on the upper tier of the bug exhibit.

An information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Monarch butterflies are known for their lengthy southward migrations in the winter. Once spring rolls around, they return to their original homes until the weather turns cold again. In their southern habitat during the winter, you may see thousands of them covering the trees." On island, they can be found all year.

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Did you know the monarch butterfly migrates south for the winter and returns north for the summer? Indeed, these horrid orange beasties do not tolerate the cold and travel 3,000 miles to escape the winter. During the journey, they cluster together in trees by the thousands just to stay warm. Imagine! Hordes of the foul flittering fiends huddled together in one place! If only they'd put on tiny coats instead."

After Day 9 in-game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option and you can complete the "World Insects" lesson with 2 play coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.









This is a real monarch butterfly (Male).
The monarch butterfly has a wingspan of about 9½ centimeters. It is found in North America, New Zealand, Australia, and Spain. The male has brighter colors than the female. Males also have scent glands (visible as a dark spot on the hindwings) which help distinguish the males from the females. Due to the toxic milkweed diet of the caterpillar, both the larvae and adults are poisonous, and consuming these butterfly could cause harm.



