Moray eel

Ocean





Moray eel
#64
ウツボ Utsubo







Location
Ocean


Price (Nook)
2,000 Bells


Price (C.J.)
3,000 Bells


Size
34.95 in. 88 cm


Shadow size
Thin


Seasonality (N)
August to October


Seasonality (S)
February to April


Time of day
All day


Appearances
CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The moray eel is a rare ocean fish introduced in City Folk. It is found all day during late summer and early autumn. It is yellow with a brown top and tail. It sells for 2,000 Bells.



Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers says:

"The moray eel has a reputation as the gangster of the deeps, eh wot? But in actuality... It's quite the scaredy-pants and rarely strays from the home it makes between large rocks. If one doesn't start any trouble, one won't find any trouble. Such is the philosophy of the moray. It's rather universal, wot? The stronger one is, the more one understands the value of avoiding trouble..."

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will give information about this fish.

"Moray eels can often be seen sticking just their heads out from between two rocks. When unsuspecting prey approaches, the dart out to snatch it up into their sharp-toothed mouths. Once moray eels have their teeth in you, it's hard to get away, making moray-eel bites no trifling matter. Their long, finless bodies are covered in tough, snakelike skin that often gets used as leather."

In the museum, this fish appears in the back tank, under a rock. It occasionally pokes its head out.

When donating it to the museum in New Horizons, Blathers will say;

"Despite its rather frightening features, the moray eel is really a very cowardly fish.It lives its life hiding in caves, and will only attack if you're looking for a fight.You've heard of a "bark that is worse than the bite"? Well, the moray eel has a face that's worse than its fight!"









A real moray eel.
The kidako moray (Gymnothorax kidako) can be found in shallow Pacific waters off the coast of Japan. The approximately 200 species in 15 genera are almost exclusively marine, but several species are regularly seen in brackish water, and a few, for example the freshwater moray can sometimes be found in fresh water. The body is generally patterned. In some species, the inside of the mouth is also patterned. Their jaws are wide, framing a protruding snout. Most possess large teeth used to tear flesh or grasp slippery prey items.




