Mortgage

N/A

A player in New Horizons pays off their mortgage.
Mortgages are the number of Bells that the player owes Tom Nook for constructing and expanding their house. There are several mortgages to pay off, each larger than the previous, which are owed after Tom Nook constructs an upgrade to the house. The upgrades can either expand an existing room, or add another room to the house.

After a certain mortgage is paid off, Tom Nook will insist the player expands the house more, and sets up another expansion and mortgage for the player. This begins to be payable the very next day. In New Leaf, Tom Nook is not quite as insistent, and allows the player to choose if they would like their house to be expanded.

Mortgages can be paid off by accessing the ABD, or speaking to the teller, located in the Post Office or Town Hall. If Pelly is present when the mortgage is paid off, she will applaud the player's efforts.

After completion of all the mortgages, there are sometimes rewards for players. In Animal Crossing, the player will have their statue erected in front of the train station. In Animal Forest e+, the player receives a private island, and can choose to not have a statue erected after paying their final mortgage. In City Folk, a customizable flagpole is installed on the side of the player's house. In New Horizons, the player is granted free exterior renovations of their house for life. On the other hand, in Wild World paying off your final mortgage gets you nothing. And since there's no more loans to pay off, any new player who's added after that point will not receive any payment for finishing the tutorial.

Mortgage paid off in Animal Crossing.
A character has paid off all their mortgage in City Folk
A player in New Leaf pays off their mortgage.
These other expansions can be done in any order after the upstairs room.

Mortgage paid off in New Horizons.
Starting from the 1.6.0 update in November 2020, the player can also expand their storage for 500,000 bells.

Starting from the 2.0.0 update in November 2021, the player can further expand their storage 3 times for 700,000, 900,000, and 1,200,000 bells each.

