Mosquito

Aedes albopictus





Mosquito
カ Ka









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
#36
#39
#51
#59
#66
–
#73







Location
Price


Flying
130 Bells




Size
Available in rain


6 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


June to September
5pm to 4am



Scientific name
Aedes albopictus


Family
Culicidae-Mosquitos



Appearances
AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)


https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/wiki/File:173_-_Animal_Crossing_New_Leaf_(3DS)_-_Aww..._(Axe_Broke,_etc.).ogg



The mosquito (カ, Ka?) is a bug that flies around on warm summer nights. Although most common between June and August, they also appear in September, although their frequency will be much decreased on said month. They have an audible buzzing, but it is usually hard to hear. They were introduced in Animal Crossing, and appears again in Animal Forest e+ and every game from Wild World onwards.

Mosquitoes hone in after the player slowly once they are in range. When they are near the player they then circle three times before biting, but this count can be reset by moving a few steps away. Circles around the player while in menus, when talking, sitting on a bench or using an item still count, and though the mosquito can't interrupt these actions it will immediately bite after these actions are completed. The exception is when fishing, when the mosquito bite will interrupt that action and force the player to pull the line out.

As with all bugs and fish in Animal Crossing series, the mosquito can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers, the curator. Upon donation, he will tell the player a little bit about the donation. Below is what he says in each game:

A Wild World character, having been bitten by a mosquito.
"I'm rather impressed that you managed both to capture and transport a mosquito here without squashing it. I might have squashed it just on general principles, wot! So, <player>, how's your mosquito knowledge? Were you, for example, aware that male mosquitoes can't suck blood? No, they survive by drinking plant nectar. Evidently, the female is the vampiric one, and she only ingests blood for the protein she needs to lay eggs. I couldn't care a fig, myself. All I know is the itching that occurs after one is bitten is quire disturbing. Not only that, but mosquitoes are notorious carriers of all sorts of disease, you know! Dirty, filthy little buggers!"

Despite his objection with the bug, Blathers will still give the player a little info on it:

"I don't begrudge mosquitoes the blood, for all creatures must survive, eh wot? But why, oh WHY must their little nibbles itch so much? They're maddening! Hoo... Then again, who am I to question the infinite web of nature, wot wot?"

The mosquito can be found flying around the first room after donation, following the Player. The mosquito can bite the player if it stands around for too long.

Blathers says this when the player donates one:

"...Hoo, yes, are you aware that mosquitoes serve as a vital source of information for the academic world? Indeed, many germs live inside of mosquitoes and use them to travel across the entire globe. By understanding the living hosts to these germs, scientists may develop new treatments, eh wot?"

In the museum, the mosquito can be found flying near the lone palm tree in the middle terrace of the bug exhibit. It bites the Player when they stand around for too long.

After donating a mosquito, the museum sign reads:

"Mosquitoes can easily be found flying around on warm summer nights looking for targets. Only the females feed on blood, and when they do so, they also inject saliva. The saliva is actually what causes the annoying itchy feeling, rather than the bite itself. Mosquitoes detect body heat, sweat, and carbon dioxide, so they are drawn to exercising humans."

As in the previous games, the mosquito will chase the player around its room of the bug exhibit, and will bite any player who tarries about for too long. If the player sits on a bench and a mosquito comes and bites them, they stand up on the bench.

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"As everyone knows, the mosquito is a vampiric pest that sucks blood from innocent bystanders. But did you know that only the females suck blood? Hoo! It's true! They need it to make their eggs. When they sink their snout into our skin, they inject us with a saliva that helps them slurp up their meal. It's that saliva that makes us itch and scratch, you know. Hoo! So rude!"

The mosquito can no longer bite the player in the museum, as they are contained in a glass case in the lab area of the bug exhibit.











A Tiger mosquito
The tiger mosquito Aedes albopictus (synonym Stegomyia albopicta) is a species of mosquito that lives in tropical or subtropical regions of the world. It is easily identified by its black and white striped legs and abdomen.[1] Mosquitoes genders have very different diets, male mosquitoes do not feed on blood but from flower nectars. Only females feed on blood, mostly likely because females must reproduce. In tropical regions, mosquitoes carry the risk of transmitting the deadly disease malaria when they bite. Precaution must be taken to avoid being bitten.




