Moth

Aglia japonica microtau (WW, CF, NL)Helicoverpa armigera (NH)





Moth
ガ Ga









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#9
#10
#10
–
#13







Location
Price


Near outside lights
60 Bells (WW, CF, NL)130 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


60 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


All year (NH)
7pm to 4am



Scientific name
Aglia japonica microtau (WW, CF, NL)Helicoverpa armigera (NH)


Family
Saturniidae (WW, CF, NL)Noctuidae (NH)



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The moth (ガ, Ga?) is a nocturnal bug that can be found on cloudy nights. Players seem to detest them even more than cockroaches. Moths are usually found by bright lights, but can be chased well away from lights where they will eventually disappear into the sky in some games.

"There are many who think that butterflies are cute while moths are repulsive... In this owl's opinion, they are both equally grotesque! Blech, I say! I suppose such revulsion is mine and mine alone, however.."

After donation, the moth can be found on or flying around one of the two lamps on the north wall of the first room of the bug area.

"Many people hate moths, yet love butterflies, but the truth is that both belong to the order Lepidoptera. Since both are covered in unspeakable veins and foul powder, I suggest they are equally distasteful."

An information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Moths are related to butterflies, but they're most often active at night instead of day. They use their large antenna to sense, smell, and guide themselves in the dark. Interestingly, the number of moth species is estimated at 160,000, so "moth" is a fairly broad descriptor."

The moth can be found in the upper-left-hand corner of the bug exhibit, flying around a lamp near the bagworm. In the day time, it simply sits on the lamp.

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Many think the moth is strictly a nocturnal creature. Alas, no! These frightful fluttering beasts have been known to haunt the daylight and twilight hours too. Thus, there is no time of day one might escape the moth trait I dislike most of all—those feathery antennae! The mere thought of them gives my feathers goosebumps. And I'm no goose."

After Day 9 in-game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option. You can complete "World Insects" lesson with 2 Play Coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.











Aglia japonica microtau
Helicoverpa armigera


Moths are a diverse group of insects in the order Lepidoptera, the same order as butterflies. The order is split into butterflies and moths, but the distinction is not taxonomically evident from this point on (though the difference between butterfly and moth is obvious). Scales on moth's wings rub off when touched, but contrary to popular belief this does not kill or harm the moth; the scales are simply coloring.

The original moth model most closely matches Aglia japonica microtau, but more recent patterns from Pocket Camp and New Horizons are based on Helicoverpa armigera.



