Napoleonfish

Cheilinus undulatus





Napoleonfish
ナポレオンフィッシュ Naporeon fisshu










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#44
#48
#52







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
10,000 Bells




Size
Shadow size


70 in. 177 cm
Huge




Time of year
Time of day


July to August
4 AM to 9 PM



Scientific name
Cheilinus undulatus


Family
Labridae - Wrasse



Appearances
CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)



The Napoleonfish (ナポレオンフィッシュ, Naporeon fisshu?) is a large blue rare fish in the Animal Crossing series with a distinctive humped head along with small green indented eyes that look like eyelashes. It is one of the very large sized Ocean-going fish, and has an expensive price tag also. Like most other oceanic fish, the Napoleonfish appears in the back tank when placed in the museum. In New Leaf, this fish can be found on the island throughout the year. In Pocket Camp, there is a Green Napoleonfish, with could only be caught during Fishing tourney 35.

"Hoo, my good gracious! What size! What majesty! What impact this fish has! When fully grown, the body of this fish can reach a length of over 80 inches, eh wot? The beady eyes and pouty mouth make it appear a bit dull witted...which I find rather charming!"

The Napoleonfish can be found lazing around near the bottom of the ocean fish tank at the back of the fish exhibit.

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Called Napoleonfish, these fish also have the more accurate name of humphead wrasse. The true name comes from the distinctive humps on their heads. But "Napoleonfish" is more popular. When small, all Napoleonfish are females, but some become males as they age and their humps grow. Their bodies also turn a bluer shade as they mature and become males, making identification simple. Their bulky bodies, which can get to about six feet long, still glide easily through warm tropical seas. Finding these fish is a real treat for divers, as they're stunning to see - and it's a great story to tell."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Quite the catch you've brought! The stately and debonair Napoleonfish is truly something to behold. Those beady eyes! That bumpy head! That bold blue-green coloring! Alas, this quirky creature is quite endangered due to a variety of factors. Needless to say, we must do our very best to take care of our lumpy friend and its environment."











A real Napoleonfish
The Napoleonfish is the largest wrasse species (family Labridae), and one of the largest coral reef fish. Today, this specific creature is better known as the humphead wrasse, but in a few places, it is called the Napoleon or Māori wrasse. Males may reach up to 6 feet/2 meters in length, while females are half the size. Humphead wrasse have become endangered due to overfishing, where juveniles are captured and raised until they reach a larger size, where they are sold. While it can live for up to 30 years (25 for males), its slow breeding rate puts it in danger if its numbers decline too greatly. Like its relatives, it is born female and may change gender around a decade old.



