Neon tetra

Paracheirodon innesi





Neon tetra
ネオンテトラ Neon tetora










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#32
#36
#38







Location
Price


River
500 Bells




Size
Shadow size


0.8 in, 2 cm
Tiny




Time of year
Time of day


April to November
9 am to 4 pm



Scientific name
Paracheirodon innesi


Family
Characidae - Characins



Appearances
CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The neon tetra is a tiny fish found in the river between the months of April and November from 9am and 4pm. The Neon Tetra is the smallest fish in the Animal Crossing series, and despite being uncommon it only sells for 500 Bells. It was introduced in City Folk.



As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the neon tetra can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"That metallic blue body! Hoo, that crimson tail! That pristine white belly! ...Now, THIS is what I call a tropical fish! No wonder this fish has the word "neon" in its name, eh wot? One of these should liven up the museum nicely!"

It can be found in the small tank to the left with the Goldfish and Popeyed Goldfish in City Folk.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Neon tetras get their names from the beautiful blue metallic line on their bodies. Although their shy, gentle fish, surprisingly they're related to piranha, though very distantly. They have very sharp and narrow teeth, an odd contrast to their beauty. They are delicate fish who tend to be very sensitive to the cleanliness and temperature of water."

In New Horizons, when either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo! Wonderful! The neon tetra is truly a marvel of the tropical-fish world. Just look at how tiny it is! And how very filled with...neon! I imagine its environment must be just as flashy as it is for it to have developed such colors. I wonder how flashy I might be, had I been raised somewhere even half as vibrant?"

The neon tetra can be found as a school in the small front tank in the freshwater fish room.









Neon tetra are native to backwater and clear water streams in southeastern Columbia, eastern Peru and western Brazil, living in the Amazon river. It is originally from South America. It is a popular aquarium fish, mainly due to its unique coloration. It has a light-blue back that meets a silver-white abdomen, with a red and blue stripe in between them. It is however, transparent. During the night, when the neon tetra is inactive, it loses its red and blue stripe, which turns silver.



