New Year's Eve

AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH



New Year's Eve







Appearance
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Occurs
December 31st - January 1st


Special character
TortimerRedd, Isabelle (NL)Tom Nook, Isabelle (NH)



Music
New Year's Themes


New Year's Eve is a celebration of the past year that occurs in all versions of the Animal Crossing series. As the first part of the two-part New Year celebration, this holiday is the climax of each year. Tortimer hosts an outdoor countdown party for the villagers in town. The day following the celebration is New Year's Day, the second part of the New Year celebration.

In New Leaf, Redd appears at the countdown clock and sells hats. Similarly, in Gekijōban Dōbutsu no Mori, Redd took up a similar role.

The holiday is analogous with the real world holiday of the same name. The villagers in the town will get excited about this event and how they celebrate it varies in all the different Animal Crossing games. Traditionally in many western countries, people sing "Auld Lang Syne," a practice mirrored by the villagers in Animal Forest. Translated from Scots, the song's title means "Times Gone By."

Event Basics

At exactly 11:00PM, a cutscene plays, in which Phyllis announces from the Train Station's PA system that the celebration is beginning. The cutscene will also play if a player begins play after 11:00. Once control returns to the player, Tortimer appears near the pond along with the countdown board. Special music plays in the background and the animal villagers begin to congregate about the pond. If the player speaks with Tortimer, he will give them a noisemaker until midnight. As time passes, the villagers become more and more ecstatic in their conversations. At 11:59PM, with only a few seconds left in the old year, the music silences and the board begins emitting beeps upon each new second.

With a louder beep, the board beckons in the New Year at 12:00AM midnight. The "COUNTDOWN" text on the board also flips to a "NEW YEAR" message. As the town clock plays the town tune, the hour long fireworks display begins and each of the villagers begins to celebrate, whistling a tune that resembles “Auld Lang Syne.” Players can watch the fireworks by watching their reflections in the pond. At this point, Tortimer stops handing out party poppers.[citation needed] The New Year's Eve celebration ends at exactly 1:00am, but the New Year celebration continues the next day with the New Year's Day events.

The player will also receive a letter from their mother with 10,000 Bells inside.

In some games, during New Years Day, the player can talk to Tortimer (The Mayor) and receive "Party Poppers." The player can easily obtain as many as they want.[citation needed]

Event Basics

From 6:00AM, the first time a player comes out of their house, Pelly announces from the Town Hall's loudspeaker that the countdown has started. A large board appears in front of the Town Hall, counting down the hours/minutes/seconds to go until the New Year. Tortimer appears next to the countdown board, and will give out Party Poppers if spoken to. Players may stock up on these items for the big event.

At exactly 11:00PM, a cutscene plays, in which Pelly announces from the Town Hall's loudspeaker that it's time to start the celebrations. The cutscene will also play if a player begins play after 11:00PM. Special music plays in the background at this time. Several animal villagers may congregate around the board at this time, but only if this is their first New Year's Eve celebration in the town. As time passes, the villagers become more and more excited in their conversations. At 11:50PM and 11:55PM, the music changes. Finally, at 11:59PM, the music silences and the board begins emitting beeps upon each new second.

At 12:00AM midnight, the town clock plays the town tune and the board changes to a scrolling "NEW YEAR!" message. A 2-hour long fireworks display also begins - players can see the fireworks in the top screen of their Nintendo DS systems. Unlike the original, the villagers don't prance around and celebrate, although they will wish players a Happy New Year if spoken to. At this point, Tortimer stops handing out party poppers. The fireworks end at exactly 2:00AM, but the celebration continues the next day with the New Year's Day events.

Event Basics

From 6:00AM, a large board appears in front of the Town Hall, counting down the hours/minutes/seconds to go until the New Year. Tortimer appears next to the countdown board, and will give out Party Poppers if spoken to. Players may stock up on these items for the big event.

At exactly 11:00PM, a cutscene plays, in which Pelly announces from the Town Hall's loudspeaker that the final countdown has begun. The cutscene will also play if a player begins play after 11:00PM. Special music plays in the background at this time. The animal villagers do not seem to congregate anywhere, although they will be excited if spoken to. As time passes, the villagers become more and more excited in their conversations. At 11:50PM and 11:55PM, the music changes. Finally, at 11:59PM, the music silences and the board begins emitting beeps upon each new second.

At 12:00AM midnight, the clock plays the town tune and the board changes to a scrolling "HAPPY NEW YEAR!" message. A 2-hour long fireworks display also begins. At this point, gameplay stops briefly and players have no control over their character. The camera tilts upwards to show the fireworks in the sky, and Pelly wishes everyone a Happy New Year from the Town Hall's loudspeaker.

After the announcement, players can move their characters again. The animal villagers will occasionally look up and applaud the fireworks, and will also wish the player a Happy New Year if spoken to. At this point, Tortimer stops handing out party poppers. The fireworks end at exactly 2:00AM, but the celebration continues the next day with the New Year's Day events.

On January 1, the player will receive letters from every villager wishing them a happy New Year, some giving their resolution. Also, Mayor Tortimer will stand outside and give the player a New Year's Shirt that says the current year, up to the year 2035.

Event Basics

The day begins in a similar way in that it begins in City Folk, with a board that shows the hours counting down to the New Year. The morning and afternoon are generally quiet, until 11 PM, when the Villagers and Isabelle will begin to act more excited and even sport party hats.

Redd, who is by the Town Tree, will give the player a New Year's top hat, or a New Year's party hat. They come in assorted colors, Yellow and Blue for party hats and Red and Green for top hats . The player can also receive a Party Popper, all 3 costing 300 Bells.

Isabelle will give the player an item if she is spoken to twice. The item depends on what country they live in. For example, people in North America get Sparkling Cider.

On New Year's Eve, DJ K.K. will play a remix of the New Leaf Title Theme in Club LOL.

The town hour theme starting at 11PM will begin to sound eager and change as the New Year gets closer, similar to how it did in City Folk. At the last minute, the Countdown clock will begin to emit beeps upon every second, and at 00:00, the town tune will chime, and a pair of giant Party Poppers will burst on the top of the Countdown Clock, the board on the clock changes to "HAPPY NEW YEAR !", a message will appear and fireworks will begin to burst from the sky, the first firework being the one that shows the new year. On New Year's Day, there are three themes that will play depending on the time of day: one for 12 AM to 2 AM, one for 2 AM to 6 AM, and another for the rest of the day.

Like with previous instalments, the event begins with a board that shows the hours counting down to the New Year, however this time, the board is placed in the middle of the Resident Services building, preventing any access to it as it's closed for the day. The plaza is also decorated with many different colored balloons.

Tom Nook and Isabelle are standing outside near the countdown board, both wearing tuxedos and hats. The player gets a light stick from Isabelle and five party poppers from Tom Nook. In addition, the player can buy additional party poppers for 300  and four varieties of the New Year's Hats for 500 .

During the last hour of the year, villagers gather at the plaza and don party hats, while different music plays. Nearer the New Year, all the villagers that were outside will be there. At least 3 will stay inside, but they will still dress up for the celebrations, and dance inside their houses. They will still talk about the event when inside, and if the player isn't wearing a New Year's party hat, they will persistently urge the player to wear one.

During the last ten seconds, villagers start waving their light sticks and dancing. After this, the clock changes to a scrolling "Happy New Year!" message, as the two-hour Firework Display starts.

