Nibble fish

Garra rufa





Nibble fish
ドクターフィッシュ Dokutā fisshu










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
#34
#35







Location
Price


River
1,500 Bells




Size
Shadow size


2 in. 5 cm
Small NLTiny NH




Time of year
Time of day


May to September
9 am to 4 pm



Scientific name
Garra rufa


Family
Cyprinidae



Appearances
NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The nibble fish is a fish that was introduced in New Leaf. It can be found in the river during the summer and autumn.

Despite being quite small sized, in New Leaf it is not caught from tiny shadows like goldfish, instead it is found under "small" sized shadows which is shared with crucian carp and bluegill.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the nibble fish can be donated to the museum by talking to Blathers.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"The official name given to this warm-water-dwelling species of fish is "Garra rufa." They are omnivorous, as they both eat algae and scrape the skin off other fish. All you'd have to do to feed them is stick your hand in the tank; they would live off your dead skin. That's why they're called nibble fish. They exfoliate but don't have any teeth, so it doesn't hurt at all!"

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Nibble fish are best known for their use in a certain...skin treatment. This treatment has apparently been used for thousands of years. I have never...experienced said treatment... because they eat your dead skin with their little toothless mouths! Can you imagine anything so repellent?! Please don't ask me any follow-up questions. Hoo."









The doctor fish, otherwise known for its scientific name, Garra rufa, is used for treating skin diseases in Turkey. It has other nicknames such as the nibble fish (used in-game) and kangal fish. Unfortunately, demand for this fish for aquariums and fish spas is having a negative effect on their populations.



