Nintendo DS

Nintendo Foxconn (Ex.DSi/XL)













Manufacturer
Nintendo Foxconn (Ex.DSi/XL)


Type
DS Phat (Above) NTR-001


Released
November 21, 2004December 2, 2004February 24, 2005March 11, 2005



Inputs
Unknown



Predecessor
Game Boy Advance


Successor
Nintendo 3DS




The Nintendo DS (iQue DS in China) also known as Codename Nitro, Iris and Cityboy is a dual-screened, touch sensitive handheld console from Nintendo. This console has an installment of the Animal Crossing series, which it's Wild World.

There are currently 4 different versions of the Nintendo DS, all with bottom touch screens. The first is the Nintendo DS (sometimes called the Nintendo DS Phat/Tank due to its bulkier appearance). The second is the Nintendo DS Lite, known for the slimmer body. More DS Lite consoles have been sold than any other DS model so far. The third is the Nintendo DSi, with 2 cameras and matte surface to produce less fingerprints. The Nintendo DSi XL is 93% larger then the DS Lite and about the same size as the DS Phat, was released in Japan in late 2009, early March in Europe and released in the United States on March 28, 2010.

Nintendo announced in early 2010 that they were planning to make a successor to the DS series that utilized 3D technology, called the Nintendo 3DS. This console was revealed alongside 3DS games, including a preview of New Leaf, which is releasing June 9th in America, June 14th in Europe and June 15th in Australia and New Zealand. The Nintendo 3DS was released on March 27, 2011 in North America.

The Stylus is a tool that is used to operate the lower screen on the Nintendo DS (commonly called the touch screen). The Nintendo DSi XL has two different sized styluses, one full sized, and the other slightly bigger than the Nintendo DSi's stylus. Wild World has two different control schemes: one that is entirely controlled by the buttons on the DS, and one that is controlled entirely by the stylus. Input from the method not currently in use will cause Wild World to switch control modes; however the initial input will not be recognized until used again.

These games are no longer available on the DSi due to the DSi Shop's closure on March 31, 2017. However, they can still be purchased on the Nintendo 3DS eShop for $1.99.



