O'Hare

Male



O'Hare
サントス Santosu




“It's not old; it's vintage.”


Gender
Male


Personality
Cranky AF+-AFe+Smug NL-NH


Species
Rabbit


Birthday
July 24th (Leo)



Initial phrase
amigo アミーゴ (amīgo, amigo)  amigo 朋友 (péng yǒu)


Initial clothes
Blue Aloha Tee AF+-PCPineapple aloha shirt NH



Home request
A tropical resort. HHDTropical Paradise HHP



Skill
Air guitar


Goal
Musician



Coffee
Blend,No milk,No sugar


Favorite song
K.K. Island


Appearances
AF+, AC, AFe+, NL, HHD, aF, PC, NH


“Hah hah! That's not your usual self! Are you a bit jealous, player? Not everyone can look this lovely! ”
― O'Hare, New Leaf
O'Hare (サントス, Santosu?, Santos) is a rabbit villager in the Animal Crossing series. He appears as a cranky islander in Animal Forest+, Animal Crossing, and Animal Forest e+. However, from New Leaf and onwards, his personality was changed to smug. He has the nature hobby.

His name may be a reference to hares (more specifically, the Irish hare), a species similar to rabbits, or it might be a more specific reference to Peppy Hare, a character from the Star Fox series. His name could also be referencing the Chicago O'Hare International Airport, as his theme appears to be travel-oriented.

However, his Japanese name Santosu (Santos, in Portuguese), his catchphrase (amigo, meaning friend in Spanish and Portuguese) and his house appear to be related to Brazil, since it is a tropical country with many beaches. 

O'Hare in Animal Crossing
O'Hare is a rabbit with brown fur and a tuft of orange hair, a green nose and green on the insides of his ears. He has orange teeth which can be seen when he opens his mouth. He also wears a yellow top hat with a black trim, making him one of the few villagers to wear headgear. His eyes are wide and black, and look somewhat stoic; hinting towards his cranky (smug as of New Leaf) personality. He initially wears a blue aloha tee, or a blue pineapple aloha shirt in New Horizons.


O'Hare personality changes from a cranky islander in Animal Crossing to a smug villager in New Leaf.
Cranky villagers will usually appear in a grouchy or agitated mood. When talking to the player, cranky villagers tend to become angry if the player disagrees with them or refuses to do a favor. Like all cranky villagers, O'Hare will be invested in his hobby and will often challenge the player to various competitions. He will easily get along with jock, snooty, and other cranky villagers, and occasionally lazy and normal villagers as well. However, he will find it hard to socialize with peppy villagers, as they will seem overstimulated or immature.
Smug villagers are very polite, kind, and gentleman-like. As a smug villager, O'Hare will get along easily with other villagers. Smug villagers get along well with most villagers, their personality appearing to be a mix of the other personality types. Smug villagers will stroke their egos from time to time, going on about how cool they are.

Generally, O'Hare will get along with lazy, normal, snooty, and peppy villagers, and may conflict with cranky villagers.

In Animal Crossing, he only has Tom Nook's picture, just like Norma, Bubbles, Kit, Prince, and Moe.

In New Leaf, his room has an island theme, with items such as the hammock, two regal benches, a beach parasol, a lantern, a canoe, and a beach table. He plays K.K. Island on his reel-to-reel. He uses the sea view and tropical floor as wallpaper and flooring.

In New Horizons, his room has again an island theme, with two mini "islands" formed by his tropical rugs, in the middle of the sea made by his ocean-horizon wall and water flooring. One island contains a beach towel, some coconut juice, a pair of flip-flops, and a cassette player, playing K.K. Island. The other island has a cooler box, an outdoorsy fishing rod, a palm-tree lamp, and a watermelon beach ball on it. Sitting in the water are a life ring, a wave breaker, and one of Flick's models, the great white shark.

O'Hare was added to Pocket Camp in the April 10, 2018 update.

O'Hare's preferred theme is cool, and he primarily gives wood as a reward. His profile reads:

Friendship Level: 0



