Oarfish

Regalecus glesne





Oarfish
リュウグウノツカイ Ryūgūnotsukai










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
#71
#78







Location
Price


Ocean
9,000 13,500 if sold to C.J.6,000 (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


230 in. 600 cm
Huge




Time of year
Time of day


December-May
All day



Scientific name
Regalecus glesne


Family
Regalecidae



Appearances
NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)



The oarfish is a rare ocean fish introduced in New Leaf. It is active all day during the months of December to May. It has a huge shadow size and sells for 9,000 Bells.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Oarfish are deep-sea-dwelling fish with long, thin, silver bodies and one red fin lining their backs. They can reach lengths of over 10 yards, making them huge and striking fish. They usually swim by twisting their long, thin bodies, but they can also swim in more vertical positions. Their mouths are small compared to their bodies and they have no teeth, so they're large but not imposing."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The oarfish is a long, eel-like fish that can supposedly reach up to 36 feet in length. They appear in various legends as things like messengers of the gods. It seems to me a creature like that could explain the myth of massive, ship-crushing sea serpents. It is, of course, well documented that people tend to exaggerate the size of 'the one that got away.' "

The fish can be found in the front saltwater fish room, in the right deep-sea tank along with the barreleye, coelacanth and football fish.









A real-life Oarfish.
The oarfish is a shy deep-sea fish that is extremely long. Known as the "King of the Herrings", it is the longest bony fish alive. It is assumed that many historical reports of sea serpents may actually have been oarfish. Although large in size they pose no threat to humans due to their diet of crustaceans, small fish, and other small creatures.



