Ocean sunfish

Mola mola





Ocean sunfish
マンボウ Manbō










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
#53
#61
#66
#70







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
4,000 Bells (6,000 Bells if sold to C.J.)4,000 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


135 in. 340 cm
Huge (with fin)




Time of year
Time of day


July to September
4 am to 9 pm



Scientific name
Mola mola


Family
Molidae - Ocean sunfishes



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)


“I caught an ocean sunfish! Good thing I'm wearing ocean sunscreen!”
― New Horizons
The ocean sunfish is a rare ocean fish that appears during the summer months from 4 am to 9 pm.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the ocean sunfish can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"I understand that ocean sunfish are edible, but... I've also heard that unless it's incredibly fresh, it tastes rather foul. As such, it's usually only eaten where it's caught!"

The ocean sunfish will be found in the second room in the ocean tank.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"...The ocean sunfish, it turns out, is related to the blowfish! Shocking, no? Absolutely mind-boggly! The resemblance is quite strong in its little mouth and round body... Seems rather blowfishy to me! ...There's something almost therapeutic about watching its slow, dull movements and vacant expression."

It can be found in the tank at the back of the aquarium, with other ocean fish.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Ocean sunfish are a relative of blowfish that can reach up to two tons in weight. Lacking a tail fin, they cannot swim particularly quickly, which is an odd bit of anatomical detriment. The number of eggs they can lay is the most in the world at over 300 million. However, out of that 300 million, only one or two fish will ultimately survive. Ocean sunfish sometimes like to bob up and down on the surface of the ocean. This gives them the appearance they're sunbathing, which helps to make them a popular breed of fish."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The ocean sunfish is a large relative of the blowfish with an unusual shape, like a fish head with a tail. They are a fairly relaxed species, often content to ride where the currents take them. This is fortunate as, otherwise, the sight of a large head coming toward you might be alarming!"













A real-life ocean sunfish
Main article: Ocean sunfish on Wikipedia 

The Ocean Sunfish (genus Mola) is the type species of its family, Molidae. Its range is fairly widespread, being found in both temperate and tropical oceans. The word "Mola" is Latin for "millstone". They are closest in relation to two other fish in Animal Crossing, the Blowfish and the Pufferfish. When resting the Ocean sunfish will lay down on its side just below the ocean's surface. Their diet consistes of mostly jellyfish. Due to the makeup of their skull, ocean sunfish are unable to completely close their mouths.



