Olive flounder

Paralichthys olivaceus





Olive flounder
ヒラメ Hirame










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
#43
#47
#52
#57
#62







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
800 Bells10 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


40 in. 100 cm
Large




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Paralichthys olivaceus


Family
Paralicthydae - Large-tooth flounders



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The olive flounder is an uncommon fish that can be found in the ocean in all Animal Crossing series games. It appears all day at any time during the year. This fish is a lighter brown than the similar-looking dab and faces the opposite direction in the log. Flatfish as a whole are very similar, referenced by the Player's comment in Wild World and New Leaf when the fish is originally mistaken for a dab. In Animal Crossing Pocket Camp, a larger version of the fish known as the King Olive Flounder can sometimes be caught, and has a huge shadow.

As with all bugs and fish in Animal Crossing series, the olive flounder can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers. During a donation, Blathers will tell the player a bit about the donation. Below is what he has to say;

Blathers has this to say about the olive flounder in Wild World;

"For some time, I was convinced that olive flounder tasted of olives. It turned out that it was a rather elaborate joke played upon me... I should have known there are no such things as flounder olives, either!"

Upon donating the olive flounder in City Folk, Blathers will say:

"Olive flounders are masters of self-transformation... who, I'm told, can grow to almost 40 inches long. That's like some sort of underwater bath mat! It's a good thing you caught this one while it's still young!"

It can be found in the tank at the back of the aquarium, hiding underneath sand, with other ocean fish.

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Olive flounders are rather flexible whitefish that have both eyes on the left side of their body. They can reach three feet in length and are commonly mistaken for dabs, a close relative. When young, they have an eye on each side, but as they age, their right eye migrates to their left side. These carnivorous fish can change color to camouflage themselves on the seabed as they wait for prey."

In New Horizons, when presenting Blathers with the fish, he will say:

"Did you know that the olive flounder is the same shape as other fish when it hatches? But as it grows, it gets both wider and flatter, and can reach some three feet long. These flat fish spend much of their lives buried under the sandy ocean floor, waiting for prey to happen by. Imagine the surprise for said prey when they strike. It would be as if your kitchen floor were to bite you!"

The fish is displayed in the large tank in the back saltwater fish room.



「ひらめを　つり・・・ だよな?　カレイなの?」 —Animal Forest e+ 











A real-life olive flounder
The olive flounder (also called the bastard halibut or Japanese halibut) is an Asian flatfish that occupies a large area of Asian flatfish taken for commercial reasons. Hirame (平目 / ヒラメ) as it is called in Japan or (광어 Korea Flatfish) as it is known in Korea is widely raised in aquaculture in China, Korea, and Japan as a food fish. It is a very large type of flatfish that can be well over a meter in length which is far larger than most other species that typically never reach more than 30 cm.



