Pale chub

Zacco platypus





Pale chub
オイカワ Oikawa










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#9
#9
#9
#9
#2
#2
#2
#2







Location
Price


River
160 Bells (AC, AF, AFe+, WW, CF)200 Bells (NL, NH)10 Bells (PC)




Size
Shadow size


6 in. 18 cm
Small (AC),  Tiny (WW, CF, NL, NH)




Time of year
Time of day


All year
9 am to 4 pm



Scientific name
Zacco platypus


Family
Cyprinidae



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The pale chub (Zacco platypus) is a moderately common to uncommon fish found in the river in all of the Animal Crossing series games. It can be found in the river during the day at every time of the year. In Animal Crossing and Wild World it appeared as a pink-purple fish with a blue side as well as a few gold scales; this is very unlike the true coloration of the species.



As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the pale chub can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Oh? Is that a fact? It's sometimes called a mountain trout? But it's not a trout! What rot! Well, regardless, I'll see that it gets the proper care. You have my word on it!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"You know, I'm sure these are technically edible... Even so, I don't think there are too many people who actually DO eat them, wot? I suppose if one were to batter them with some delectable spices..."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"The pale chub is a freshwater fish. During its spawning season, it turns a vivid blue, wot wot? But all the eggs do have similarities... Telling what sort of beastie laid the egg is difficult, wot wot? Rather fascinating how a fish normally so plain can put forth such an effort when love is on the line... Perhaps I might stand to adopt that fish philosophy myself, and quite soon!"

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These fish are related to carp, with distinguishing features such as long ventral fins and protruding mouths. They have good jumping abilities, which allow them to jump up and grab bugs hanging around the water. They are known as very active fish with rather scrappy attitudes, making them tenacious survivors. During mating season, the male's stomach turns pink and its back turns blue. Females love this."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The pale chub is a river fish with simple black-and-silver coloring. Interestingly, the male's coloring becomes more vibrant when he's trying to attract a mate! Though normally plain, these fellows really known how to look stylish when they want to. Perhaps I could learn a thing or two from the pale chub... "









The Pale Chub, also called the Freshwater Minnow (or Pirami in Korea), is an East Asian fish. It is in no danger of becoming threatened or extinct, as it is plentiful in all of its habitats. It lives in fast flowing rivers, streams and lakes where it feeds off of insect larvae, algae and smaller fish. During mating season, the male Pirami changes its color to a more vibrant hue to impress females. They feed more actively in dull conditions, usually during the evening or when the weather is overcast. It is related to the Dark Chub, and is a member of the Cyprinidae.




