Peacock butterfly

Papilio bianor





Peacock butterfly
カラスアゲハ Karasuageha









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#4
#4
#4
–
#4







Location
Price


Near purple, black, and blue flowers
220 Bells10 Bells (PC)2,500 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


105 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


March to SeptemberMarch to June(NH)
4am to 7pm (March to May-CF)4am to 5pm (July-CF)8am to 5pm(WW, August- CF)8am to 4pm (September-CF)4am to 7pm(NH)



Scientific name
Papilio bianor


Family
Papilionidae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The peacock butterfly (カラスアゲハ, Karasuageha?) is a rare bug found from Wild World and beyond. It only appears in areas near flowers colored purple, black, or blue.

Upon donating a peacock butterfly to the museum in Wild World, Blathers will comment as below:

"The peacock butterfly gets its name from its coloring, as one would expect. If you ask me, I think it's a bit too ostentatious... But that's just me..."

Blathers, the museum curator, will accept peacock butterflies for donation to the bug wing:

"I trust you've seen a bunch of butterflies fluttering about a puddle before, have you not...? Hoo, yes, there would be peacock butterflies, then. They don't just sip nectar... The beasts drink water, too. And in great, wretched groups, no less! Utterly repugnant!"

Peacock butterflies appear with the rest of the butterflies in the flower beds on the lower terrace of the bug room after donation.

An information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug:

"The back of the wings of a peacock butterfly is black, while the front is blue or green. The males have black, velvet hair on their forewings and are easy to spot because of their beauty. Sometimes you may see a group of male peacock butterflies drinking water together."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Pretty as a peacock? Bah, I say! The wings of the peacock butterfly may have a pattern similar to that of the beautiful bird... But its forewings are also covered in a dark, velvety hair! You heard right! HAIRY wings! A hair-raising revelation indeed!"

After Day 9 in-game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option and you can complete the "World Insects" lesson with 2 play coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.











Yu's first appearance is of him chasing a peacock butterfly.
In the film, Yu's first appearance is during a chase with a peacock butterfly outside Alfonso's house. As soon as Alfonso sees the butterfly he dashes inside, grabs his on net, and runs after, leaving Ai on his doorstep with the door wide open. Ai, puzzled, decides simply to leave her delivery inside his house.

A real-life Papilio bianor.
Papilio bianor, the Chinese peacock, is a species of butterfly that is native to much of east Asia. It grows to a maximum wingspan of around 8 centimeters and feeds on plants such as the Japanese prickly ash. It is usually found in forests and does not tend to stray into urban areas, as there is little in the way of food plants there.




