Picture

N/A

A player with multiple pictures on display in New Leaf.
A Picture (alternatively Pic) is a special piece of furniture in Wild World, New Leaf, and New Horizons. The object consists of a standing picture frame, with the unique image within differing depending on what villager or special character it belonged to.

In Wild World, pictures are worth 3,200 HRA points each, and the same applies in New Leaf as long as that villager remains in the town. There are 156 villager picture furniture items in Wild World. They do not appear in the catalog, and do not have a categorized color or genre despite their colored frames. They all occupy one space in the player's house. All pics cannot be sold, with the exception of New Leaf, where all pics can be sold to Re-Tail for ten Bells each. In Animal Crossing, Tom Nook's portrait is the only obtainable "pic", and can be seen on Bubbles the hippo's Watermelon Table.

Pictures are given to the player by a villager when the player becomes best friends, often given in place of a typical furniture, wallpaper or carpet reward for completing favors, or sent in the mail as is sometimes the case in New Leaf. Pictures may also be obtained from special characters when certain objectives are met.

When a player has befriended a villager enough, the villager may approach them after displaying a surprised or excited emotion, and will want to start a conversation. There is a chance that one of these conversations will be of the villager expressing their gratitude towards the player for being their friend, resulting in a picture as a reminder of their friendship.

A lazy villager may glitch on the player before they receive a picture. There are two scenarios indicative of this glitch, and there are no workarounds; it is a permanent effect on the player, and in order for another chance at a picture, another character must be used to befriend the villager again. This glitch was patched, among other lazy villager glitches, in newer copies of Wild World.

Bud giving his picture to the player in New Leaf.
Obtaining pictures in New Leaf has changed from Wild World, and they can be received as rewards for fulfilling villagers' requests. Writing to the villager may also result in receiving a picture in the mail as well. When a villager moves away, they may also mail the player their picture as a keepsake.

There is also an alternate way to receive villager pictures. During April Fool's Day, Blanca will hide in one of the villager's houses once spoken to from the plaza, and will mask herself to impersonate that villager. The player will then have to deduce which of the two villagers is the real villager and which is Blanca. For example, a villager (or Blanca) may tell the player their birthday, in which Blanca will always fabricate a date. If the question pertaining to the villager is answered correctly, the villager may become excited and grant the player their picture.

Blanca will continue to approach other villagers' houses until she has visited each one. If the player answers each villager's questions correctly, they may receive Blanca's picture in the mail the next day.

In New Horizons, the method to obtain pictures is different than that of previous installments. Obtaining a photo in New Horizons is completely random and not done via special events. For a villager to give the player their photo, the player must first have a high friendship level with the villager. The player can gift the villager expensive and valuable gifts such as exotic fruit or furniture that sells for 1,000 bells or more. Even if the player has a high friendship level with the villager and gifts them lots of expensive items, the likeliness of them receiving the photo is low due to how rare the occurrence is. 

There are two different methods to getting photos in New Horizons:

In New Horizons, Ed has his photo atop of his fireplace in his house. Nan also has Chevre's photo in her house and vice-versa, meaning they both own photos of other villagers.

In Pocket Camp, pictures are obtained immediately after reaching 20 hearts with most villagers. However, certain special villagers, such as the characters from the 2019 Sanrio crossover, do not reward any pics. 

In addition to regular villagers, players can also receive pictures from animal visitors and workers by fulfilling certain requirements. Friendship is not a factor when obtaining these items, which may make these easier to obtain.

Pictures of special characters were not available on the initial release, but they were added in future updates.

