Pike

Esox lucius





Pike
パイク Paiku










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#21
#23
#24







Location
Price


River
1,800 Bells 1,500 bells (Pocket Camp)2,700 if sold to C.J.




Size
Shadow size


160 cm
Very Large




Time of year
Time of day


September to December
4 am to 9 pm(CF, NL),All Day(NH)



Scientific name
Esox lucius


Family
Esocidae - Pike



Appearances
CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



2,700 if sold to C.J.
The Pike is a rare fish introduced in CF. It appears from fall to early winter from 4 AM to 9 PM, all day in new horizons. It is found in rivers and sells for 1,800 Bells.

Blathers will comment on your donation as follows:

"Hootie hoo... Why, you've managed to catch quite a massive fish, haven't you? Commendable! The pike, a relative of the salmon, can grow to...a whopping 52 inches or more in length! If I met one of these during a dip in the water, I do believe I'd launch into thrashing panic mode!"

It can be found in the middle-right tank in the Aquarium exhibit.

Pikes are only found in cold water, so they cannot live in warmer parts of the world. They can grow over three feet long and as such are a very popular fish with anglers. Pike have a slightly protruding jaw and large mouths with sharp teeth, making them powerful predators. They use these teeth for tearing apart not only other fish but also birds and other aquatic creatures.

"The pike has always reminded me a bit of salmon, although a pike can grow rather larger. These brutes can grow to over four feet long...sometimes MUCH over! Hoo hoo! It is carnivorous and preys not only on other fish, but also mammals and some waterfowl...If I were to meet one in the water, I would have a most difficult time keeping my wits about me."











A real pike
Esox lucius, or the Northern Pike (often abbreviated to simply Pike), sometimes known as the Jackfish, is a widespread and famous sport fish in the genus Esox, which contains many Pike species. They have a holarctic distribution, and are native to Europe, Russia and North America. In both continents anglers eagerly flock to locations to have a chance at landing larger fish. Pike have been known to live up to 30 years of age. Theirs diet consists mainly on small shoal fish, insects, amphibians, small mammals (like moles and mice), and even small waterfowl. They have also been known to be cannibalistic, sometimes feeding on smaller pike. Over-ambitious pike are not uncommon, and many die from choking.




