Piranha

Pygocentrus nattereri





Piranha
ピラニア Pirania










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#30
#30
#30
#30
#31
#33
#37
#40







Location
Price


River
6,500 Bells(AC),3,500 Bells (WW),2,500 Bells (CF, NL, NH) 




Size
Shadow size


11 in. 30 cm
Small




Time of year
Time of day


June to September (AC, WW) June to September 15th (AF, CF, NL)
9 am to 4 pm9 pm to 4 am



Scientific name
Pygocentrus nattereri


Family
Characidae



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The piranha is a rare fish that appears in the river during the day-time in the summer. Selling for 2,500 Bells, it not only is quite expensive for such a small fish, but is also the most expensive small fish. When this fish is given to Wendell in City Folk, the player is rewarded with a Cracked Ground design.

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the piranha can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it. Once in its tank, it will bash against the walls of the tank in an attempt to reach the player.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Dear me! My mind boggles! I had no inkling that we had such frightfully dangerous fish in these waters! I suppose that would indicate they're not as lethal as they are made out to be... Or are they trying to lull us? Have no fear! We'll look after your sharp-toothed friend. For everyone's sake!"

It can be found in the bottom right tank, after donating it to the museum.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

﻿"Piranha are rather bony. I can't say I've heard good things about their flavor. Some restaurants do serve them, of course, but as a tourist attraction, eh wot? These things probably sit about discussing OUR flavor, you know."

It can be found in the middle tank, after donating it to the museum.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Most people see piranhas as savage fish that enjoy tearing prey apart with their teeth... However, they're actually quite timid, wot wot? They're often treated like bad guys due to their scary faces. I hope we haven't hurt their feelings..."

Once donated, the piranha can be found in the front-left tank with the 'rarer' river fish. When approached, it will follow the player, and continuously butt its head against the tank glass, rapidly opening and closing its mouth to reveal its sharp teeth. While butting its head against the glass, it will make a knocking sound. It will lunge at other fish occasionally.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"They have terrifyingly sharp teeth, which contributes to their ferocious reputation. Oddly enough, they are actually quite timid, though they are still very dangerous fish. If they can't find food, they will resort to cannibalism or tear apart any animal they can grab hold of. Take care when catching them so they don't end up biting your hand with their sharp teeth!"

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"I am not exactly a fan of the piranha...despite knowing that they're mostly harmless. But those nasty, pointy teeth... Hoo. These infamous little blighters will attack when in groups. Imagine all of those hundreds of tiny teeth! To think that they're floundering about our peaceful waters, just waiting to strike. Well, never fear—I shall keep THIS one under the strictest lock and key, with nary a bathroom break allowed!"

「ピラニアが　釣れた! ・・・この川　何川なの?　かみつかれなくって　よかったあ!!」 —Animal Forest 











A piranha
The piranha is a small fish found in the river basins of the Amazon and its tributaries. They can grow to a maximum length of 33cm and usually travel in shoals for defensive purposes. Despite their fearsome reputation, the piranha is a mostly passive fish and prefers to scavenge on insects, worms, crustaceans and fish, with larger shoals eating bigger targets such as the capybara. The red-bellied piranha is not endangered in the wild, and is a popular aquarium fish.




