Pitfall Seed





Pitfall Seed





Type
Buried Item


Stackable
No


Availability
Lost Property,Buried (once every day),Crafted



Appearances
AF, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH



A Pitfall, also known as a Pitfall Seed, is an item found throughout the Animal Crossing series.

When pitfalls are buried and walked upon, the player or villager will fall into the pit and display the shocked emotion. Players must rapidly tap buttons to get out of the pitfall, and the more buttons pressed the quicker they are to escape. When talked to after falling in a hole, villagers shout and exclaim before getting out. Special Characters, like Tortimer and Isabelle, are immune and cannot fall in them. Pitfall seeds can be found once every day.

In New Leaf, if a player falls into a pitfall and there is an NPC nearby, they will express the shocked then the distressed emotions.

In New Horizons, the Pitfall Seed returns as a DIY Recipe. The recipe can be obtained by balloons in the sky, bottles on the beach, or given by island residents. Players can place them anywhere on their island to trick their villagers which may cause them to be angry.

Pitfalls vary in rarity throughout the games. In most games pitfalls spawn randomly throughout the town each day like fossils. But they also appear in the Lost and Found or in the Dump (in respective games). In New Leaf, they can be dug up from tours and kept. In New Horizons, they can be crafted at the DIY Workbench.

Pitfalls are considered "trash" in most games, selling for no bells. This changes in New Leaf where they sell for 8 Bells.

In New Horizons the recipe for Pitfall Seeds can be obtained through using a slingshot and shooting a variety of balloons down from the sky. It can also be given to the player from a jock villager or a Message in a bottle. It comes in the form of a DIY recipe and can be craftable. It requires weeds and tree branches. They sell for 140 Bells.

This new type of pitfall only appears in New Leaf and most commonly appears at the Police Station once it has been unlocked. A Tricky Pitfall looks similar to a regular pitfall, except with a yellow exclamation mark on a purple background. It functions identically to the regular pitfall, except the crack for the buried tricky pitfall is much smaller, making it difficult to see.

Following the changes, as well as their introduction in New Leaf, tricky pitfalls have a resell value of 20 Bells.

When thrown, if the opponent is on the ground, they are buried for a short time. If the opponent is in the air and the Pitfall Seed hits, they are "spiked" (shot directly downward). Or, if thrown and it lands on the ground, it appears to vanish in a series of sparks, then, when an opponent of the thrower walks over the place where the Pitfall "vanished" they will be buried for a short period of time. The pitfall (that was hidden in the ground) despawns after a while.



