Plant

N/A

In the Animal Crossing series of games, the town contains Flora, or plants. The plants are very diverse, ranging from trees to weeds.

Trees are the main plant in a town. There are many different types of trees such as Oak trees, Cedar trees, Palm trees and Fruit trees.

Trees can be shaken and are a source of money, furniture, and some insects, including the bee and the spider. Trees are grown from saplings purchased in Tom Nook's Store or the Gardening Shop or from fruit. They can be removed by chopping them down with an axe and digging up the stump with a shovel.

Each town starts out with a variety of regular trees, cedar trees and fruit trees of that town's native fruit. In City Folk, they all help with grass deterioration, providing a physical barrier and regrowing grass slowly. When the town starts out, they are all huddled together, normally in the intersection of four acres.

The weeds are the small tufts of grass-like plant scattered over the town. Three weeds grow every day, and they spawn at 6 AM. They should be pulled up with the "B" button.

In Wild World, a new type of weed was introduced known as clovers. They still have the same function, but have a small chance of giving the player a Lucky Clover, which is a four-leafed clover that can be used as a lucky charm when worn and a lucky furniture when placed in the house, and is the only weed able to be physically held. There is a high chance of getting a clover when the town is covered in weeds, from not playing for a while.

The rafflesia is an indestructible plant that spawns in a town when there are too many weeds. The only way to get rid of it is to remove all weeds in the surrounding acre.

They are undesirable in real life as well, due to their stench of rotten flesh. They are easily identifiable by their giant red petals, with white spots.

Flowers are the opposite of weeds - they are considered to look nice, attract bugs, and increase town beautification. Tom Nook will have some at his store.

Some flowers cannot be bought at Nook's store. These are hybrid flowers. They are vital in catching the peacock butterfly, and other rare bugs.

Purple, black, blue, orange and pink flowers are results of crossbred hybrids.

Approximately 75% or less of the town's ground is covered by grass. The grass turns to snow during Winter. In City Folk, a new feature was introduced called grass deterioration. This records where the player has run, and depletes the grass there by a small amount. It can become game-breaking for some, as the town slowly moves towards desertification. Snow is more easily deteriorated than grass, and grass is its most hardy in June. Flowers help grass grow back more quickly than normal, and trees do so as well, but not as well as flowers do.

Grass can come in different patterns, for example; the grass pattern could come in the shape of stars, circles, triangles, or squares. The pattern changes in winter, when the snow starts to appear, and reverts back to normal when the snow goes away, in spring. Every town has a random pattern for their grass and their snow, giving every town an unique character.

In New Leaf, bushes are solid plants the player cannot walk though. Once the player has expanded to the T.I.Y. (Nookling stores), they can be bought at the Gardening Store for a few bells. Red and Yellow Hibiscus bushes will randomly be available on Tortimer Island for 5-7 medals (the price varies from each time they are available).

Like trees, bushes cannot be planted near houses, rocks, rivers, cliff edges, the train fence, buildings, and Public Works Projects. However, bushes can be planted directly next to other bushes, trees, and the stone paving by the Town Hall, Train Station, Re-Tail, and Plaza. Bushes cannot be walked through, making them effective hedges and fences.



