Pond smelt

Hypomesus olidus





Pond smelt
イシカリワカサギ Ishikari wakasagi










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#19
#19
#19
#19
#21
#22
#24
#25







Location
Price


River
300 Bells




Size
Shadow size


6.70 in. 17 cm
Small




Time of year
Time of day


December to February
All day



Scientific name
Hypomesus olidus


Family
Osmeridae - Smelts



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The pond smelt is a relatively common winter fish found in the river at any time of the day between the months of December and February.

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot!"

Blathers will give his usual short speech on your donation. His words are as follows:

"Pond smelt are a popular catch during winter ice-hole fishing, eh wot? It's a simple sport, really. You open a hole in the ice, drop your line in...and then wait for a nibbly-nibbly! Not that I've tried. I find cold weather rather unappealing, so ice fishing is hardly a possibility..."

Upon donating it to the Museum, it can be found in the middle/right tank in the Aquarium.

"Pond smelt are small but vigorous fish that can survive in water of relatively poor quality. Pond smelt are related to salmon and as such have a lot of the same migratory tendencies. Most of them swim from rivers to the ocean and then return to rivers and lakes. However, some of them actually live in lakes that have no connection to the ocean, so they don't migrate. They have small fins and are perfect for eating whole as tempura or grilled on barbecues."

In New Horizons, Blathers will tell you the following about the pond smelt upon donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me about this!":

"For many, thinking of pond smelt inevitably leads to thoughts of ice fishing in frozen rivers and lakes. Ice fishing involves making a round hole in the ice, dropping in your fishing line, and...waiting. Not to rain on anyone else's idea of fun, but...well, perhaps I shouldn't say anything."



「ワカサギを　つりあげた！こおりがなくても　つれるのね」 —Animal Forest , Wild World & City Folk

「ワカサギを　釣り上げた！氷がなくても　釣れるのね」 —New Leaf 











Real-life pond smelt
The pond smelt is a type of harmless commercial fish found in middle to surface waters in lakes, rivers, and ponds - this means it is caught to be sold for food. It can be found across the world in the Arctic, Northwest to Northeast of the Pacific, Canada, Alaska, Korea, and Japan. They feed off of plankton, small insects, and algae. Adults can be found spawning in in-shore areas between spring and summer.



