Pop-eyed goldfish

Carassius auratus auratus





Pop-eyed goldfish
デメキン Demekin










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#27
#27
#27
#27
#9
#9
#9
#8







Location
Price


River (AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC)Holding Pond (NH)
1,300 Bells100 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


5.40 in. 12 cm
Tiny




Time of year
Time of day


All year
9 am to 4 pm



Scientific name
Carassius auratus auratus


Family
Cyprinidae- Minnows/Carp



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The pop-eyed goldfish is a rare river fish found throughout the year. Its rarity at the right time of the day is just about equal to that of the goldfish and the guppy, leaving the catch rate of a tiny fish in the day time at around 33% (this is excluding the common loach in spring, bitterling during winter, killifish in GCN and neon tetra in City Folk).

As with all fish caught in Animal Crossing series, the popeyed goldfish can be donated to the museum in each game by talking to Blathers, who will also give some information on it.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Those adorable little fins! Those huge, googly eyes! Even I am helpless in the face of their cuteness! We will take special care of this precious fellow. Welcome to your new home, you darling little fishy!"

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"You should know, the eyes on the popeyed goldfish can occasionally pop out! There's nothing wrong, of course, and if you let the fish be, they go back in. Even so, the first time I witnessed it, MY eyes nearly popped out, wot wot!" 

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Popeyed goldfish look like any other ordinary goldfish whilst still juveniles. As they begin to mature, their eyes bulge outward and gradually assume that distinctive appearance. Imagine how appalled you'd be if you brought one home thinking it was a normal goldfish...".

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"They're known for their protruding eyes, as the name indicates, but this feature is actually a detriment. Their vision is quite poor, to the point that they will swim past food and frequently bump into things. They are a type of goldfish and get their distinguishing eye pop about two months after birth."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Pop-eyed goldfish have, as the name suggests, huge round eyes. But as babies they look like other goldfish! As they grow, their eyes begin to pop out and they gain their, hoo, distinct appearance... Imagine the poor fish fancier who unknowingly bought one! Their eyes might well pop out just as far! "













A real-life popeyed goldfish. They are sometimes known as Telescope Goldfish or the Black Moor.
Carassius auratus, the goldfish, a close relative to the crucian carp, has been domestically bred into an array of different shapes, sizes and colors. The Popeyed Goldfish breed is a harmless fish that once released lives in slow-flowing ponds, ditches, rivers, and lakes. It feeds off of small insects, crustaceans, and plants. It is a specially bred type of goldfish with large, protruding eyes, which to the surprise of some gives it poor eyesight as a result of heavy inbreeding.




