Queen Alexandra's birdwing

Ornithoptera alexandrae





Queen Alexandra's birdwing
アレクサンドラアゲハ Arekusandora-ageha









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
#5
#8
#9
#9
–
#12







Location
Price


Island (AFe+)Near flowers
3,000 Bells (AFe+, WW)4,000 Bells (CF, NL, NH)3,500 Bells (PC)




Size
Available in rain


260 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


May to September
8 am to 4 pm



Scientific name
Ornithoptera alexandrae


Family
Papilionidae - Butterflies



Appearances
AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★) (AFe+, WW, CF), Uncommon (★★★) (NL)



The Queen Alexandra's birdwing (アレキサンドラトリバネアゲハ, Arekisandoratoribaneageha?), formerly known as the birdwing butterfly (アレクサンドラアゲハ, Arekusandora-ageha?), is a rare butterfly introduced in Animal Forest e+. It can be found during the summer.

In Animal Forest e+, the birdwing butterfly appears on the Island at Oak Trees, which must be brought in as saplings and planted. They appear around the canopy of trees, well out of net range, and only descend when disturbed by running or throwing the net nearby.

In Wild World, the birdwing butterfly appears around flowers. Since City Folk it can appear anywhere on the map. Birdwing butterflies are reasonably fast, but less so than the agrias butterfly.

As with all bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the birdwing butterfly can be donated to the Museum followed by a short monologue by Blathers, the curator.

AFe+ museum. A Birdwing is visible on the coconut tree trunk.
On donation it flies at the bottom left of the museum around the Coconut Palm where the crabs reside.

Blathers will say:

"Though I know this is a type of tiger butterfly, its size is simply monstrous! Are you trying to terrify me with this behemoth? No, you wouldn't do that. Rather shabby of me to suggest you would... Please accept my apologies!"

It can be found on or flying around the row of flowers on the right of the first room, with the other butterflies.

Blathers will say:

"Hoo my, what a butterfly... I now see why it's touted as the world's largest butterfly, eh wot? I'd heard the wings of this particular butterfly can extend over a foot...but up close, they look bigger still! If one of these flew into me while I was out flying... I'd likely pass out in horror and plummet on the spot!"

When observing it in the Museum:

"The world's largest butterflies, birdwing butterflies, have wings that can measure 30 cm long. The females have longer wings than the males, while the males' wings have a deeper blue color. Though they are extremely popular with collectors, international trading is either limited or fully banned."

It can be found on it's information sign in the top-left room.

“Hoo! The horror! This behemoth butterfly may be called a Queen Alexandra’s birdwing... But I call it the Queen of My Nightmares! It is huge! Indeed, the world‘s hugest. No butterfly can best its foot-long wingspan. The larvae alone grow to more than 4 inches. As if that weren’t appalling enough...they’re poisonous! Murderous monsters, indeed!”

After Day 9 in game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option, you can complete "World Insects" lesson with 2 play coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.

「アレクサンドラアゲハを捕まえた！　Ｏｈ！　アレクサンドラァ～！！」 —Animal Forest e+ 







A real life birdwing butterfly.


Queen Alexandra's birdwing butterfly is the largest species of butterfly in the world: its wings can reach a span of over 25cm. It is only found in the forests of Papua New Guinea. It is endangered, and is one of the three species of insect which are illegal to trade worldwide. The species was named after Alexandra of Denmark. Due to their large size, the species has few natural predators: only a few spiders and birds are capable of taking one down. Due to their large size and high flying patterns, it is not uncommon for poachers to resort to using shotguns to capture these butterflies.




