Rainbow stag

Phalacrognathus muelleri





Rainbow stag
ニジイロクワガタ Nijiirokuwagata









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#44
#49
#56
–
#58







Location
Price


On trees
10,000 Bells6,000 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


59 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


June to September
5pm to 8am7pm to 8am (NH)



Scientific name
Phalacrognathus muelleri


Family
Lucanidae - stag beetles



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The rainbow stag (ニジイロクワガタ, Nijiirokuwagata?) is a rare bug found in the Animal Crossing series. It can be found between the months of June and September, and between the hours of 7pm and 8am on regular and fruit trees.

"I do wonder why the rainbow stag beetle is colored the way it is... While I may not know THAT, I most certainly know THIS: They are foul."

Upon donating to the Museum, Blathers the curator will say:

"Rainbow stags have the honor of being called the world's most beautiful stag beetles, eh wot? Even the insect's belly has this rainbow design, making it one of the less vile bugs I've encountered. In fact, this may be the only insect whose underside I can view without retching..."

It can be found on a cedar tree to the left of the top terrace in the bug exhibit.

"Rainbow stags are called the most beautiful of stag beetles because of their metallic-rainbow color.  Not only are their wings a pretty rainbow color, but their bellies are as well.  They are quite laid back, but they can be seen every now and then fighting to protect their territories."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Rainbows are beautiful things, I'm sure we all agree. But rainbow stag beetles? Bleech! Yes, yes, this beetle's back and belly shine with a pretty rainbow-colored luster. But that does not change the fact this bug has large pincers on its face and loves to pick a fight! If one can wish upon a rainbow, then I wish to say far away from the rainbow stag. Perhaps I've picked the wrong profession."

「ニジイロクワガタをつかまえた！レインボーのヨロイが目にまぶしい！」 —New Leaf 

When the player has caught the rainbow stag, they can find information about it in the bug menu. Below is the information regarding the rainbow stag:









The Rainbow Stag beetle gets the name from its unique coloring, which appears to change color when looked at in different angles and in different light within its also unique, metallic-looking body. It is native to northern Australia. It is a protected species in Australia , they are recently very expensive stag beetles in the japan till japanese success captive breeding them . They come in many colours from red , green , black , purple and blue , blue is one of the rarest colour among the rainbow stag beetle blue rainbow stag beetles are highly prized .

When breeding and raising these beetles, they do not require special lighting if placed near a window. The temperature should be around 22 °C (72 °F). Their unique 'antler's only found in males are primarily for digging through rotten wood and for fighting. On some occasions they may flip their opponent a great distance into the air as they are considered very strong for their size.

Larvae have very strong jaws for biting through wood. Compared to other stag beetle larvaes their larvae have a more slender end . In captive environment , the larva are fed by wood flakes or mushroom spawn of trametes versicolor .





