Rajah Brooke's birdwing

Trogonoptera brookiana





Rajah Brooke's birdwing
アカエリアゲハ Akaeriageha









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#8
#8
–
#11







Location
Price


Near Blue (NH) and variety of flowers
2,500 Bells1,500 Bells (PC)




Size
Available in rain


140 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


April to September and December to February
8am to 5pm (April)8am to 7pm (June)8am to 5pm (July)8am to ?? (Sept)



Scientific name
Trogonoptera brookiana


Family
Papilionidae - Butterflies



Appearances
CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)




The Rajah Brooke's birdwing (アカエリアゲハ, Akaeriageha?) is a rare bug that made its first appearance in City Folk as the "Raja Brooke butterfly".

Upon donating to the museum, Blathers the curator will say;

"...I must say, I'm quite impressed with your ability to catch such an impressive butterfly... The Raja Brooke butterfly, I must tell you, is one of the larger tiger butterflies. Naturally, its antennae and proboscis also rank as some of the largest around. Be not proud, vile beast! Your cute red collar and fancy name do not fool Blathers!"

It can be found in the bottom-left enclosure in the bug exhibit, flying around the pond.

In New Leaf an information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Raja Brooke butterflies have red heads and a red strip around their necks, giving the look of a collar. They are known to drink hot-spring water and often hang around water flowing up from the ground. While males are vibrantly green, females are much more commonly seen with brown wings."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

“Did you know that the repulsive Rajah Brooke’s birdwing loves to luxur in hot-springs water? It’s true! Hoo! The males gather in groups to sip the moisture while the females hide in jungle trees. And though they dress to impress in red and green, these fluttering fiends are not just stylish... They’re also quite malicious! Their little larvae pack a poisonous punch that’s supposed to protect them from predators... But I suspect more diabolical designs”.

After Day 9 in game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option, you can complete "World Insects" lesson with 2 play coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.





Adult male (above) and female, dorsal surfaces.By Anaxibia - Own work, CC BY-SA 3.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=8729007
Rajah Brooke's birdwing (Trogonoptera brookiana) is a birdwing butterfly from the rainforests of the Thai-Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Natuna, Sumatra, and various small islands west of Sumatra (Banyak, Simeulue, Batu and Mentawai). The butterfly was named by the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace in 1855, after James Brooke, the Rajah of Sarawak. The larval host plants are Aristolochia acuminata and A. foveolata. Adults sip flower nectar from plants such as Bauhinia. Rajah Brooke's birdwing is a protected species, listed under Appendix II of CITES, meaning that international export is restricted to those who have been granted a permit. It is the national butterfly of Malaysia.

Both sexes resemble the more restricted relative, the Palawan birdwing, but males of Rajah Brooke's birdwing have more green to the hindwings. The wingspan of Rajah Brooke's birdwing is 15–17 cm (5.9–6.7 in). The wings of males are mainly black. Each forewing has seven tooth-shaped electric-green markings, while there is a relatively large electric-green patch on the hindwings. The head is bright red and the body is black with red markings. The wings of females are browner with prominent white flashes at the tips of the forewings and at the base of the hindwings.



