Ray

Dasyatis akajei





Ray
エイ Ei










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
#60
#65
#71







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
3,000 Bells1,000 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


54.55 in. (130 cm)
Huge (CF), Very Large (NL, NH)




Time of year
Time of day


Northern Hemisphere: August to November Southern Hemisphere: February to May
4 am to 9 pm



Scientific name
Dasyatis akajei


Family
Dasyatidae - Sting rays



Appearances
CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



Southern Hemisphere: February to May
The ray is a relatively uncommon fish found in the ocean. In New Leaf it has the same shadow size as a Sea Bass, where in City Folk the shadow is a size larger.

In New Leaf it can be found on the island during the entire year.

Like all fish in the Animal Crossing series series, the ray can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers, who will give a small talk about it. It can be found in the back oceanic tank, with other ocean/sea fish.

Blathers has this to say about the ray when donated:

"Many theorize that rays are distant relatives to the sharks... But unlike their fearsome theoretical cousins, rays, with their little grins, are simply adorable, wot wot!"

When placed in the museum it appears in the very back tank with most other saltwater fish.

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Beating their large fins up and down to move through the water gives the rays the impression of flying. If viewed from below, rays appear to have their mouths curled up into a sort of smile. Some varieties have poisonous spikes at the base of their long tail fins that can be fatal to humans. This, combined with the ability to hide in sand at the bottom of the sea, can make them very dangerous."

"The ray is an unusually shaped fish with a flat body and a long body, somewhat related to sharks. Seen from the bottom, the mouth on its stomach appears to be smiling, which is objectively adorable. But be cautious—unlike most cute animals, some rays are extremely venomous. BEWARE THE SMILE."











A real life southern stingray
The red stingray, Dasyatis akajei, also called the Japanese stingray, is a temperate stingray that inhabits the northwestern Pacific Ocean. The barb on its tail is serrated and contains a venom sheath, used for self-defense. It is a valued food fish in Japan.



