Red snapper

Lutjanus campechanus





Red snapper
鯛 Tai










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
#38
#38
#38
#45
#50
#55
#60







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
3,000 Bells4,500 if sold to C.J.100 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


34 in. (90 cm)
Large (AC, NH)Medium (WW, CF, NL)




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Lutjanus campechanus


Family
Lujanidae - Snappers



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The Red snapper, is an uncommon fish found in the ocean, which sells for 3,000 Bells. It can be found all year round at anytime of the day. It has a large shadow size, making it the same size as the black bass and carp. In Pocket Camp, a giant version of the fish known as King Red Snapper is sometimes caught, and has a huge shadow.

The red snapper can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers, who will also tell the player some information about the donation.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Snaptacular! Snaptastic! Sna...er, snap...That is...Oh bother! It wasn't particularly funny anyway. Please attempt to ignore my sorry lack of humor."

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Relatively few places serve red snapper, but... ...I actually understand why. It's rather dry, and not at all flavorful, eh wot?"

It can be found in the back, ocean tank in the aquarium.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator will say:

"Hoo, magnificent! Fine job, snapping up a red snapper! ...Hoo now? You didn't find that uproariously funny? In any case, right near the gills of this fish is a bone that actually looks just like the fish itself... Some cultures believe keeping one of these on you brings good luck. Good luck is a snap! Hoo!"

It can be found in the tank at the back of the aquarium, with other ocean fish.

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Red snappers are gregarious fish that often form schools close to reefs and shipwrecks. They are a prized food fish, but because of demand, other species are often served as "red snapper". They usually live up to 50 years. The oldest recorded red snapper was thought to be 57."

Upon presenting Blathers with the fish, he will say:
"'Red snapper' is the common name of dozens of fish species, and I wonder why it is so popular. Are there so many types of fish that are both a shade of red and have a tendency to snap? Were there no other names? What about 'burgundy biter'? 'Garnet grasper'? 'Puce pincher'?"

The fish is displayed in the back saltwater room of the fish exhibit.











A real-life red snapper.
The northern red snapper, or Lutjanus campechanus, is a type of reef fish found in the Gulf of Mexico. It is a mostly Latin American species it was originally named Pargo. They can be caught up to 300 feet below the surface of the water, and prefer to swim near the bottom in reefs, ridges, and even offshore oil rigs and shipwrecks! It shares its looks with other snapper fish, with the sloped profile of its body (between the mouth to the top of its head). However, it lacks prominent upper canine teeth found in other snapper fish but has sharp, needle like teeth in their place. They are a commercial fish as well as a recreational fish, making it somewhat overfished. This is reflected in red snapper sales in the USA, which most are in fact different species of snapper fish, just mislabeled. It can live up to 50 years of age.




