Ribbon eel

Rhinomuraena quaesita





Ribbon eel
ハナヒゲウツボ Hanabigeutsubo










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
#60
#65







Location
Price


Island (NL),Ocean (NH)
600 Bells1,000 Bells (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


52.35 in. (132 cm)
Thin




Time of year
Time of day


All year (NL)June to October (NH)
All day



Scientific name
Rhinomuraena quaesita


Family
Muraenidae



Appearances
NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



Ocean (NH)
June to October (NH)
The ribbon eel is a fish introduced in New Leaf. It can only be found in the sea around the island. In New Horizons they can only be caught from June to October.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium lists information about this fish. When interacted with, it reads:

"Ribbon eels have long, ribbonlike bodies and look as if they have flowers sprouting from their noses. They get their name from their bright, vivid color, in addition to the length of their bodies. Ribbon eels hatch sexless before first becoming males, then females as they age. Their tendency to stick their heads out from holes in the sand and open their mouths is not a sign of anger. In actuality, they're merely taking a breath. Oddly, they're surprisingly peaceful creatures, despite the look."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The ribbon eel is related to the moray eel, though its bright coloration distinguishes it. It also has a an unusual plant=like appendage at the tip of its nose that flutters as the creature moves. I like to think of it as having an extremely friendly nose that waves a greeting to those nearby!"







A real-life ribbon eel
The ribbon eel is a species of moray eel. It lives in lagoons and reefs across the Indo-Pacific. It is unique among morays in that it is protandrically hermaphroditic: black juveniles first develop into blue-and-yellow males, then entirely-yellow females. Despite being caught for the aquarium industry, it is listed as "Least Concern" by the IUCN.



