Sable

Female



Sable
あさみ Asami




“Keep working, and the water mill won't freeze.”



Gender
Female


Species
Hedgehog



Service
Seamstress



Birthday
November 22nd (Sagittarius)


Coffee
N/A



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, HHD, PC, NH, Gekijōban Dōbutsu no Mori


“Patience, Sable...”
― Sable, City Folk
Sable Able (あさみ, Asami?) is a character in the Animal Crossing series, co-owning the Able Sisters tailor shop, one of the stores that can be found in the player's town. She is a shy, reserved character that prefers to work in the background while her younger sister, Mabel, assists customers. About the third day of trying to befriend her (maybe second) Sable will say, "Mabel, please!" which indicates the player still needs to bond.  By the sixth day, she will acknowledge the player by name.

Sable is a brown hedgehog with pink freckles and half-closed eyes, which make her look tired or sad. She has no visible mouth, and so instead talks by moving her nose. She wears a candy gingham apron and has a head full of large, spiky bristles.

Sable's life is very focused around the world she grew up in- she is happy with the slow pace of the country life and has proven to be firm friends with others from the village, most notably, Tom Nook. She has low self-confidence and is an introverted person.

In Happy Home Designer, she confides in the player that she's terrified that Mabel might leave, like Label did, hinting she may have some form of abandonment issues.

Sable maintains the same role in all releases of the Animal Crossing series. She can be seen sewing in the corner, keeping quiet and secluded. If the player keeps talking to her, she will start becoming their friend and sharing memories about her childhood.

The player will find Sable sewing in the corner. When the player first talks to her, she will appear cold and dismissive towards the player, much to Mabel's disgust. However, when she becomes friends with the player, she will often argue with Mabel because Mabel teases and embarrasses Sable. The more the player talks to Sable, the more she reveals about her childhood. Her parents died when she was a young hedgehog so she had to hand raise Mabel alone. The first thing she made was a pair of gloves for Mabel (Mabel had gotten frostbite on her claws, but Mabel wore them on her ears instead). It is also believed that Sable has a soft spot for Tom Nook, for she grew up with him.

Sable has a minor role in Gekijōban Dōbutsu no Mori. She is seen sewing patterns like in the games. Also, she is seen sitting in the front row next to Mabel during K.K. Slider's performance. She speaks very few lines in the movie.

Sable contentedly works at the sewing machine in City Folk.
In City Folk, Sable's role remains unchanged, although she does reveal a family secret- she is eventually forced to admit that the worker in GracieGrace is indeed her younger sister, Label. Sable does not get on with her sister as she feels that Labelle abandoned her to go to the city when their parents died, leaving her alone to look after Mabel. After speaking with Sable every day for six days, she will eventually stop ignoring the player and pushing them away but will make comments about the day of the week and sometimes tell the player stories about her past life and childhood.

Sable may also say:“Oh, Welcome! What? The couple in that photo? Oh stop it, <Player's name>, really. I'm still single! Of course that's not me. That's my late mother. I'm the young girl, there, and the smaller girl beside me is Mabel. The two of us are ten years apart... Both Mother and Father died when Mabel was still just a little girl. But since she was so small, she doesn't remember a thing, the poor dear. The only memory she has of our parents is this photo... I never thought I'd be able to take the place of our parents for her... So I just did what I had to and tried to look after her as best as I could. Somehow, thankfully, she grew up to be that bright bit of sunshine we all love. It was a huge relief that she grew up so normal. Her only fault is that she can be a bit too tomboyish...”
― City FolkAfter that, Sable sweats as she uses her sewing machine.

In New Leaf, Sable is sewing in the corner. Like in previous games, if the player talks to her at least once every day for a couple of days, she will become friends with them and start revealing memories of her childhood. After speaking to her for ten days straight, she will allow the player to use the QR code machine, which allows them to read QR codes for designs as well as create QR codes for custom designs. After the QR machine is unlocked, if the player purchases at least 50 items and befriends Sable, she will give out a mannequin.

In New Horizons, Sable can only be met once the Able Sisters shop has been built. Once it has, she will be in the back corner, working on the sewing machine. She can once again be talked to for a few days running in order to befriend her. Once befriended, she will give the player a new set of fabric patterns once per day. These patterns can be used to customize specific kinds of furniture.



