Saddled bichir

River





Saddled bichir
#45
エンドリケリー Endorikerii







Location
River


Price (Nook)
4,000 Bells


Price (C.J.)
6,000 Bells


Size
27 in. (68 cm)


Shadow size
Large


Seasonality (N)
June to September


Seasonality (S)
December to March


Time of day
9 pm to 4 am


Appearances
NL, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The saddled bichir is a fish introduced in New Leaf. It can be found at night from 9 pm to 4 am during summer in New Leaf and New Horizons.









In New Leaf, an informational board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"The cool-looking saddled bichir are ancient fish with spiky fins on their backs. Though they've been around for more than 400 million years, they remain relatively unchanged. They have big appetites and will wait to ambush any fish they think will fit in their mouths. They can grow up to 30 inches long, making them rather large fish indeed. They swim slowly in a way that gives them the appearance of walking like dinosaurs."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"What an elegant specimen you've found. The saddled bichir has a look entirely its own. They have poor eyesight, so they use their fine-tuned sniffers to seek out prey. Can you imagine relying solely on your sense of smell to find food? And if one nostril became clogged, would you be unable to tell how far away the scent was?"

A timeless and archaic fish, the saddled bichir (Polypterus endlicheri), as well as its other relatives in the family Polypteridae, has very ancient origins. All species inhabit muddy and marshy waters of tropical Africa, the most obvious example being those living in the Nile River. These fish can breathe air from outside of water, and can cross over land effortlessly with the help of their fins. They are a nocturnal fish and feed on insects, crustaceans and other fish. They can live for up to 10 years. The Japanese-language version of New Leaf refers to the saddled bichir by the second half of its scientific name, "endlicheri".




