Salmon

River mouth (September/March 1-14)River (September/March 15-30)





Salmon
#31
サケ Sake







Location
River mouth (September/March 1-14)River (September/March 15-30)


Price
300 Bells (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
700 Bells


Price (C.J.)
1,150 Bells


Size
41 in. (100 cm)


Shadow size
Large


Seasonality (N)
September


Seasonality (S)
March


Time of day
All day


Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Common (★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The salmon is a common fish that is found only during September. Along with its larger cousin the king salmon; these two fish are the only species that can be found in both the ocean and the river.

Salmon can be found all throughout the month of September, in the mouth of the ocean. The salmon can also have a better chance of appearing between 4pm to 9am (overnight into the morning). Like real life salmon, they move up the river to breed.

In the Wild World museum, the fish is in the middle tank with its big brother, the king salmon. However, in City Folk, the two fish are separated, the salmon in the left tank, the king salmon in the right.



In Pocket Camp, the fish can be found in Lost Lure Creek (river) and can be sold for 300 Bells.

As with all fish and bugs in Animal Crossing series, the salmon can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers. During the donation, Blathers will say the following about the salmon:

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot!"

"Salmon grilled over hot coals... Delicious. I say, grilling and eating outdoors simply cannot be beat, eh wot?"

The salmon can be found in the first room of the fish exhibit in the second tank.

Ahh... A salmon? Yes, quite! Everyone knows that salmon swim upstream to spawn... Bid did you know they don't eat for the entirety of their journey? Indeed! Salmon must enjoy pushing themselves to the limit... I hereby dub them the pro athletes of the river!

The salmon can be found in the large left tank on the first level of the fish exhibit.

"Salmon are popular migratory fish that are born in rivers, migrate to oceans, and return in four years. In Japan, flavored salmon eggs are a very popular dish called ikura, but it hasn't caught on in the US. In rare cases, salmon will only stay in the ocean for one or two years before coming back. These fish are known as "phantom salmon" since they're so hard to find in the wild. Their characteristic pink color comes from the shrimp and krill they get in their diet. If they ate differently, their flesh would be white. Salmon only spawn at the bottom of the waterfall where the lake meets the ocean."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"Ah, salmon... Did you know their coloration is due specifically to their diet? Indeed, this is the case! The more they fill their diet with crustaceans such as krill and shrimp, the deeper shade of pink they are. If they ate a bushel of carrots, might they turn orange?"











A real-life Salmon
The Chum Salmon (also known as the Keta Salmon, Dog Salmon, and Silverbrite Salmon) is a species of salmon that mainly inhabits the Pacific and Arctic oceans. Most of the fish (other than the ones stocked into the Great Lakes) live in the ocean, except when it is time to come to freshwater, where there are less predators, so the fish can reproduce safe in the knowledge that there is less chance of the offspring being eaten. Unfortunately, they always die after the first spawn. The fish does not require salt water to live, however. Nearly 40% of young salmon are eaten by trout, such as the rainbow trout.




