Scorpion

Heterometrus swammerdami





Scorpion
さそり Sasori









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#56
#64
#72
–
#80







Location
Price


On the ground
8,000 Bells




Size
Available in rain


160 mm
No CF-NLYes NH




Time of year
Time of day


Northern hemisphere: May to OctoberSouthern hemisphere: November to April
7pm to 4am



Scientific name
Heterometrus swammerdami


Family
Scorpionidae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)


https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/wiki/File:NH-BGM_Demo_Sting_Oneshot.ogg



The scorpion (さそり Sasori?) is a rare bug that lives on the ground during summer nights. It can be detected by the sound of its movement, which is lighter and more rattling compared to the tarantula. If the player is stung by the scorpion, they will pass out and wake up in front of their home.

It behaves similarly to the tarantula, but unlike that bug, scorpions can't jump over low inclines. They are one of the few bugs that villagers will note the presence of nearby.

Scorpions are initially docile creatures that wander around the town, travelling away from the player if carefully approached without a net. If, however, the player runs towards the scorpion, it will attack. In New Leaf a docile scorpion will disappear after a while.

If approached while holding a net, they become aggressive and freeze. If the player then misses with the net, runs, or gets too close, the scorpion will charge. Scorpions in pursuit will not stop until they have attacked the player or fallen in water. Putting away the net mid-chase has no effect on an already aggressive scorpion.

A "glitch" is known where digging up a fossil during a chase will "freeze" the scorpion. After enough time has passed, the scorpion will stop chasing and resume wandering around.

In New Horizons, many players use their shovel to dig holes, which are used as potential traps for Scorpion's to get caught in. This makes it easier for the player to capture a Scorpion if it's aggressive and in pursuit. 

Upon donation to the museum, Blathers the curator will say;

"I've heard that a scorpion can be affected by its own poison, you know. If so, why carry around such dangerous material? Blech! Foolish wretch... If I walked around with a piano above my head, I'd expect to be squashed, wot!"

The scorpion can be found in the second room of the bug exhibit. If donated with the tarantula, the two will engage in battle. However, if just the scorpion is donated, it will follow the player's movements with its eyes.

A player gets bitten by a Scorpion, near Static.
Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers the curator will say,

"...Scorpions are assuredly attention getters. They've got those colors that say, "Stay back! I'm poisonous!" However, it seems only a tiny group of scorpions have venom lethal enough to off you with one sting. Mischievous scorpions that look like highly poisonous ones probably fooled folks into thinking otherwise."

The scorpion and tarantula can be seen battling with each other when both have been donated. They will circle each other, and eventually both jump into the air and collide, then begin their battle again. If only one has been donated, the respective bug will stare down the player instead.

A Scorpion and Tarantula fighting in New Leaf.
Since Blathers does not talk about the bug, the exhibit provides the information as follows:

"Scorpions resemble crabs and are in the class arachnida, though they aren't aquatic. Most species possess venom, but of the 1,000 or more species, only 25 are deadly to humans. Scorpion eggs hatch inside the female's abdomen, and the young spend time on her back after birth."

The scorpion will wander in its confined area alone. If approached by a player, it will turn around to look at them, rattling its tail. If a tarantula is donated, the scorpion will instead fight with the tarantula.

Upon donation to the Museum, Blathers the curator will say,

"The scorpion... how should I put this? Those legs! Those pincers! That tail! And that venomous stinger! It's as if someone took the most awful insect parts... and put them together to make the scorpion! All scorpions are venomous, you know! Though I understand that only a few kinds are truly deadly. I fear I might die just thinking about it."

The scorpion has its own display area, shared only by a Dung Beetle instead of a Tarantula. Unlike previous installments, the scorpion does not watch and rattle at the player when they are nearby its enclosure.



「サソリを　捕まえた！　さされなかったぞ、うん」 —Wild World and City Folk
「サソリを　つかまえた！　さされなかったぞ、うん」 —New Leaf 







Scorpions are a nocturnal Arachnid that can be found throughout the world in dry, arid locations, as well as tropical rain forests. Most species, while they have the ability to sting, are not dangerous to humans. It is often said that the bigger the scorpion, the less dangerous it is, and that is generally true. Scorpions are flattened and hide in crevices, holes and shaded areas. In some areas scorpions hiding in clothing and shoes have caused a number of hospitalizations. Some species exhibit bio-luminescence and glow under certain light conditions.



