Sea bass

Lateolabrax japonicus





Sea bass
スズキ Suzuki










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
#37
#37
#37
#44
#49
#54
#59







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
120 Bells (PG, AF+) 160 Bells (AFe+, WW) 200 Bells (CF, NL) 100 Bells (PC)400 Bells (NH)




Size
Shadow size


39 in. (100 cm)
Large (AC) Very Large (WW, CF, NL, NH)




Time of year
Time of day


All year (WW, CF, NL),(GCN)
All day



Scientific name
Lateolabrax japonicus


Family
Moronidae - Temperate basses



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The sea bass is a common oceanic fish in the Animal Crossing series. It occurs all day and year-round. This fish has a large shadow size that varies through the games but is often caught by those expecting a much more valuable fish. Once the most common ocean fish, this title has now been claimed by the horse mackerel, which sells for even less in later games.

It is often considered as a constant annoyance to those who seek more valuable fish and mistake it for the only slightly larger blue marlin or coelacanth, a point that is referenced even in the player's text in several games. In Wild World, it is the same size as the coelacanth, and it is impossible to separate on shadow alone. One thing the sea bass is good for is the fishing tourney, as its large size and its availability make it a good fish to submit to Chip. In New Horizons however, the fishing tourney has completely changed to remove the big fish competition, thus removing this aspect.

Like all fish and insects in Animal Crossing, the sea bass can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers, the curator. He will tell the player some information about it when donating it.

"Even run-of-the-mill, common fish are valuable resources, you see. All part of the grand tapestry, wot! We will take excellent care of this fellow, oh yes. You can rest assured. Excellent care, indeed."

"The sea bass is a fleshy white fish with a rather delicate flavor, eh wot? It's tasty prepared any which way, but I recommend a non-traditional dish...Sashimi! Indeed, consume the fellow raw! You shan't be disappointed!"

"...Ah, hoo, the sea bass. In some parts of the world, these fish have a different name as juveniles. They change names once they mature, eh wot? What's more, these names can differ from region to region... It's almost as if the sea bass is some sort of secret agent, eh wot?'""

The sea bass will appear in the ocean fish tank located at the back of the aquarium section of the museum.

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Sea bass are famous for their delicious white meat as well as their large size. If they ingest something inedible, they open up their mouths and gills and violently shake their heads. This generally manages to expel the foreign material, though it has the added effect of looking rather odd. Much like their freshwater cousins, sea bass have a strong pull, making them a great challenge for anglers."

"Sea bass is a name given to a variety of different species of saltwater fish. They are a varied bunch with some as small as four inches and some as staggeringly ginormous as eight feet! 'Sea bass' is a bit pedestrian though. Many species have better names, such as 'redbanded perch.' Or the delightfully whimsical dusky grouper! Or the potato cod! WILL NO ONE THINK OF THE PINK MAOMAO?!"

When given to Chip he says:













A sea bass in real life.
The Japanese sea bass (Lateolabrax japonicus), also called the Japanese sea perch, and known as Suzuki (スズキ) in Japanese, is a common fish of estuaries and coastlines. They have different names depending on their age: they are called Seigo (鮬) when they are under 30 cm, and when around 60 cm they are alternatively termed Fukko or Suzuki.




