Sea butterfly

Clione limacina





Sea butterfly
クリオネ Kurione










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
#36
#38
#43
#47







Location
Price


Ocean
1,000 Bells




Size
Shadow size


1.30 in. (3 cm)
Tiny




Time of year
Time of day


December to March
All day



Scientific name
Clione limacina


Family
Clionidae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The sea butterfly, Clione limacina, is a common ocean fish. They can be caught during winter and are the only winter fish that cast such a small shadow in the sea, and so can be identified with ease. Its appearance during winter is a reference to how it is found in cold waters in real life.

The sea butterfly was first introduced in Wild World, and has appeared in every game since.

The sea butterfly can be donated to the museum by talking to Blathers.

"The sea butterfly is in the same family as snails, as you may or may not know. You might think it's strange to have a snail without a shell, eh wot? Indeed, well, slugs are also snails without shells! I must admit, being lumped in with slugs probably angers the sea butterfly."

It occupies a large glass tube in the lower-right corner of the fish exhibition, with other small oceanic fish.

"N/A"

"Sea butterflies go with the flow, as they'll drift in cold winter waters along with ice floes. They are called "ice-floe angels" because of the mysterious way they swim with their winglike arms. Their heads will open up when they make an attempt to catch their helpless prey. Once its head is opened, it grabs its prey with six special feelers called "buccal cones". The only place you'll find both cold water and tropical sea butterflies swimming together is in this game."

"Such mystery! Such grace! Did you know that the sea butterfly's scientific name is Thecosomata? A very rough translation of that is 'shell body.' Indeed, this illustrious creature is related to snails! However, it reminds me much more of an elegant feathered friend, the way it flies through the water. With such grace in flying, one shouldn't wonder if it's related to the owl, hoo hoo!"

The sea butterfly is displayed in its own tank in the back saltwater fish room, where several individuals swim around a large icy stalagmite.













A real-life sea butterfly.
Sea butterflies are a kind of sea snail with the ability to swim. They beat their wing-like flippers to fly through the water not unlike butterflies, hence their name. They are very small - only 1cm in length, but play a significant role in the food web of the oceans. They can be found within the upper layers of the ocean all over the world, but are more common in cold waters, such as those at the poles.

In New Horizons, the animal that more closely matches the model is called a sea angel, while the animal that has the common name sea butterfly looks nothing like it.

If the player stays on the catching pose long enough, the sea butterfly will open its wide mouth.



