Sisterly

N/A

Sisterly (アネキ aneki?, big sister) is a personality type introduced in New Leaf and a starting villager personality in New Horizons. Sisterly villagers are very caring towards the player and are less vain than snooty or peppy villagers, but they are also more blunt, straightforward, and tomboyish and may come across as rude on some occasions. Sisterly villagers normally wake up at 11:00 AM and sleep at 3:00 AM. In New Horizons, they wake up at 9:30 AM and sleep at 3:00 AM, though on the day of a Bug-Off or Fishing Tourney, they will wake up at 8:00. There are currently only 26 sisterly villagers, making them the least common personality. Even though all sisterly villagers are female, other villagers may sometimes refer to them using he/him pronouns.[1]

Several formerly snooty villagers are now sisterly. Sylvia and Ursala both had the snooty personality until the release of New Leaf and its update Welcome amiibo. Charlise, Paula, and Plucky were all peppy until they all returned in New Leaf and its update Welcome amiibo. Faith had the normal personality until she returned in the New Horizons 2.0 update.

In New Horizons, players will always have one random sisterly villager as a starter villager.

Sisterly villagers will, when befriended, give the player fighting tips and teach them ways to relax. These villagers are tough but they still care deeply about their appearance. They have a tendency to stay up very late into the night. When befriended, they will give the player medicine if they are stung by a wasp. They will treat the player with respect and will even offer to fight off anyone that is giving the player trouble. Some Public Works Projects can only be suggested by sisterly villagers, such as the wood bench. Sisterly villagers generally get along with peppy, normal, lazy, jock, and other sisterly villagers, but may conflict with smug and snooty villagers due to their arrogant nature. They may clash with cranky villagers due to their similarly stubborn personalities, but often end up becoming best friends.

In Happy Home Designer, they are given even more of a tomboyish personality, no longer being as caring as they used to be. They are, on the contrary, the most sarcastic, blunt, and mischievous out of the female villagers. They like to party a lot, get bored easily when things are calm, and seem to always be in search of stunt emotions and experiences. They tend to taunt the player (and the other NPCs) very often and hate genuine compliments.

In New Horizons, sisterly villagers exchange friendly banter with the player a lot, especially if the player constantly talks to them. They also share the most stories about their youth than other villagers. Their caring aspect from New Leaf returns, they have a soft spot for kids and sometimes talk to the player about their friendship with their old neighbor's son and they also have a rivalry with the player out of mutual respect rather than disdain, similar to jock villagers.

Below are some (not all) quotes made by sisterly villagers.

The following is a list of villagers who have the sisterly personality in their latest installments of the Animal Crossing series games.





