Soft-shelled turtle

Pelodiscus sinensis





Soft-shelled turtle
スッポン Suppon










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
#12
#12







Location
Price


River
3,750 Bells 4,000 (Pocket Camp)




Size
Shadow size


10.45 in. (27 cm)
Medium NLLarge NH




Time of year
Time of day


August to September
4pm-9am



Scientific name
Pelodiscus sinensis


Family
Trionychidae



Appearances
NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The soft-shelled turtle is a new "fish" introduced in New Leaf. It is caught in the river, despite being in between the holding pond fish in the Critterpedia. It is only found in August and September, having the smallest month range other than single-month fish like the salmon and king salmon.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These relatives of common turtles will not let go when they decide to bite down on something. Although they can be quite shy, they will become a bit aggressive when threatened. They are often found in brackish water and are very good swimmers because of the flat shape of their shells. They swim with their snouts over the surface of the water so they can breathe. Soft-shelled turtles aren't safe to hold because they are so prone to biting at the slightest movement. However, if one bites down on you, it will usually let go when you put it safely back in the water."

Upon donation or selecting "tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The soft-shelled turtle is not one to shy away from biting when provoked. In addition to its powerful bite, this little critter has the ability to breathe both above and below water! It has an unusually long neck which it uses for both breathing and biting. Come to think of it, how did you manage to avoid being bitten? Well, it's a fearsome critter, but just look at that face! Rather silly, wot?



「スッポンを　釣り上げた！　スッポンポン！」 —New Leaf 

「スッポンを　釣り上げた！　月と　スッポン！」 —New Leaf 









This turtle has found its way into many lakes and rivers around the world. Native to brackish water (water that is freshwater but salty), the species has done surprisingly well throughout a diverse array of other habitats. Due to the introduction of this species in many parts of Asia, it has become a considerable food source. It is a nocturnal feeder that attacks and eats fish, crustaceans, insects and molluscs. It is similar to the Northern Softshell Turtle which inhabits mainland Asia.



