Spider

Argiope bruennichi





Spider
クモ Kumo









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
#38
#36
#54
#58
#70
–
#78







Location
Price


In trees
300 Bells600 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


25 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


April to September (GCN)March to November (WW)March to October (CF, NL)All year (NH)
All day (Mar-Jun, Sept)7pm to 8am (July-Aug)11pm to 4pm (Oct.- CF, NL)7pm to 8am (NH)



Scientific name
Argiope bruennichi


Family
Araneidae- Orb-weaver Spiders



Appearances
AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The spider, Argiope bruennichi, is a bug that can be found dangling from trees once they have been shaken by the player. They are fairly common and easy to catch since they don't try to escape from the player if you approach them. If the tree is shaken when a spider is hanging out, it will simply sway from side to side. If left too long, it will retreat back into the tree where it either can be shaken out again (such as in Animal Crossing and its counterparts) or will simply disappear. When a spider is not hanging out of a tree, Villagers will look up at the tree if they happen to pass by, thus giving away the location of the spider. It is not to be confused with its ground-dwelling counterpart, the Tarantula.

600 Bells (NH)
In New Leaf, they can be shaken out of normal trees and fruit trees, even if fruit is still on the tree.

They can be found during rain and are the summer counterpart of the Bagworm, which appear in winter.

「うわっ! クモだー! ムシの てんてき！」 —Animal Forest e+ 

As with all bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the spider can be donated to the Museum followed by a small talk by Blathers, the curator.

"Hanging a toy spider from a string to frighten someone is a jolly good childhood ruse known throughout the world. Now, I may be mistaken, but I believe this shows the general loathing civilized folk have for spiders. They deserve it! Eight legs, bug diet, and those eyes! They just have too many! Blech! Sinister fiends!"

Blathers will say the following upon donation of a spider:

"I can think of nothing more repugnant than becoming entangled in a spider's web. After thrashing about, you think you got it all off, but no, indeed! A little tickle on your neck and you thrash anew! Blech! Such foulness..."

After donation, the spider can be found hanging in the second left-hand bottom tree that is shared with the Rainbow Stag Beetle with only its legs being seen. If the player nears it, the spider will appear for a few seconds, then go back to hiding again.

Blathers, the curator of the museum, will accept the spider for donation to the bug exhibit.

After the player donates the spider in City Folk, he will give you some information:

"Horrors! My apologies, but I get rather jumpy around fast, multi-legged critters like this one, eh wot? Even worse is the fact that spiders have eight eyes! Even when it looks away, it can see our every move! I've heard some people worship the spider... And I've also heard that you will not find me in those places."

An information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Spiders emit silk from their spinnerets and use it to create elaborate webs to snag prey. The horizontal threads are sticky to the touch, allowing them to be used as very strong restraints. However, the vertical threads are smooth, allowing spiders to walk on them without getting stuck."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The spider is renowned for having eight eyes and eight legs... WHICH IS SIX TOO MANY, I SAY! Oh dear. I do apologize. Now where was I? Most spiders are carnivorous. In fact, some will eat creatures several times larger than themselves. To catch their prey, many of these ruthless predators spin sticky webs of surprising strength. Worse yet, they've also been known to ambush their victims, and some even chase down their meals! All this talk about the feeding habits of spiders... I'm feeling quite queasy.  Hoot! The horror! "

After donating, the spider can be found on a tree in the central terrace of the bug exhibit. It will come down out of the tree on a thread when approached.







The spider's first appearance.
A spider appears in the Animal Forest movie, where at one point, Ai walks into one close to her home, causing her to freak out. Uncertain what it is, she picks it up, but once she realizes it is a spider, she swats if off her hand onto to floor.

The spider fleeing once being swatted off Ai's hand.
Yu then appears from the tree, catches it, glad that he beat Alfonso to the chase. In return, he offers Ai a cockroach, which worsens the situation as it flies onto Ai's face. Yu claims the spider to be rare, but it is actually quite common.

A real-life wasp spider.
Argiope bruennichi, commonly known as the wasp spider, is a common species of spider that can be found in Europe, Africa and areas of Asia. They are extremely aggressive towards others of the species.




