Spring

March, April & May (North)March, April, May (South)



Spring




Official art for Spring in New Leaf


Months
March, April & May (North)March, April, May (South)


Climate
Slight rain,Clear skies


Events
Bunny Day,Cherry Blossom Festival,Festivale


Spring is one of four seasons in the Animal Crossing series. In the northern hemisphere and all games before New Horizons, it starts on February 25th, when the trees begin to turn green after being white for Winter, and ends on May 31st. In the southern hemisphere since New Horizons, it runs between August 25th and November 30th. Snow completely disappears and the grass turns green on the first day of spring.

The start of spring shouldn't be mistaken for the beginning of the spring season for bugs and fish, as these appear at the beginning of March.

Trees beginning to bloom. 1st April - City Folk
Below is a taste of what to expect in spring. Here is a list of the events, what happens in each, in what game and when.

The bulletin message forecasting the up-coming weather - City Folk
These are the fish and bugs that appear during spring.

The first signs of Spring appearing, note the greenness of the trees appearing.
The weather of spring consists mainly of clear skies and occasional slight rain showers. Grass begins to appear and trees start to turn green. Snowballs eventually disappear and snow becomes rain.

On the 1st of April, the non-fruit bearing trees around the town will begin to blossom. Eventually, all of them will turn pink (minus the fruit trees, palm trees and cedar trees). These trees are known by Villagers as "Cherry Blossoms". On the first Monday of April, "Cherry Blossom" petals fall from the sky like confetti. This is to commemorate the beginning of the Cherry Blossom Festival, which is only celebrated in Animal Crossing. The blossoms disappear on the 9th of April.

In New Horizons, for the duration of the Spring season, young spring bamboo can occasionally be gathered by chopping bamboo plants with an axe. Balloon presents retrieved during the Spring season may contain DIY recipes which utilize this material.

Below is a list of recipes which may be obtained only during the Spring season:

