Squid

Todarodes pacificus





Squid
イカ Ika










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
#44
#48
#53
#58
#63







Location
Price


Ocean, Island
400 Bells  500 Bells (NH)10 Bells (PC)




Size
Shadow size


14 in. (35 cm)
Medium (AFe+, NL, NH), Small (WW, CF)




Time of year
Time of day


December to Mid August
All day



Scientific name
Todarodes pacificus


Family
Loliginidae - Squid



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★) (AFe+), Fairly Common (★★) (WW, CF, NH)



The squid is a fish that can be found in the ocean between December and mid-August, at any time of the day. Despite it being called a fish in Animal Crossing series, it is, in fact, a type of mollusk, like (but not directly related to) the octopus.

Upon donating it to the museum in Wild World, Blathers the curator will say:

"Octopus and squid both have ink, and I've seen squid ink in recipes quite often... Strangely, however, I've never heard of a dish that uses octopus ink! I suppose it's partially due to the fact that octopuses produce very little ink... What ink they DO make is watery and ill-suited for cooking, as well... That said, I've heard that the flavor is not at all repugnant, eh wot? Perhaps an octopus-ink pasta wouldn't be bad..."

After being given to the museum, the squid will appear in the ocean tank of the aquarium, propelling itself around towards the back.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"People assume squids have legs, but those are actually arms. There are 10 in all; two are used to grab prey. To swim, they twist their fins and expel water from inside their bodies to allow for fluid motion. The ink they shoot when threatened forms into the shape of a squid, acting as a sort of body double."

In New Horizons, upon presenting Blathers with the fish, Blathers will say:

"Well, first off, squids are members of the mollusk family, just like the octopus. Many mollusks like snails and clams have shells, but the squid's body is almost completely soft. The exception is a long, narrow bit of hard material going through its main body - the last remnant of its shell. Of course, having your shell INSIDE is not a best practice. Perhaps they lost the owner's manual!"

It can be found floating near a plant in the back saltwater fish room.













A squid in real life.
The Japanese squid, as it is often called, is a northern Pacific species. It can be found around Japan, Russia, across the Bering Strait, around parts of Alaska and Canada. These squids are a large supply of food for many marine predators. The name "flying" squid refers to their tendency to propel them high out of the water at heights of around 20-30 meters or higher. The reason for this is suspected to be a way to save energy on long migration routes or to avoid predators, but the truth remains uncertain.



