Stringfish

Parahucho perryi





Stringfish
イトウ Itou










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




#24
#24
#24
#24
#26
#27
#29
#30







Location
Price


RiverRiver (Clifftop) (NH)
15,000 Bells




Size
Shadow size


62.40 in. (160 cm)
Very Large




Time of year
Time of day


December to February (GCN, WW, CF, NL)December to March (NH)
4 pm to 9 am



Scientific name
Parahucho perryi


Family
Salmonidae - Salmon family



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, NH


Rarity
Very Rare (★★★★★)



The stringfish is an extremely rare fish that appears in the winter from 4pm to 9am. It is caught in the river in games prior to New Leaf, and the clifftop rivers and ponds in New Horizons. It is one of the most valuable fish along with the coelacanth, dorado, golden trout, and great white shark, selling for 15,000 Bells. The term "stringfish" is a literal translation of the Japanese name; it is better known in English as the Sakhalin taimen or Japanese hucho, while its scientific name is Parahucho perryi. It is sometimes considered the winter equivalent of the dorado.

"Hoo! Indeed, WOO hoo! This is an extremely rare fish, I'll have you know! I'm absolutely agog! If I may hazard a guess, this must have been the most difficult fish to catch yet! I almost can't believe it! To think, you're donating such a rare find to us... Allow me to commend you on your matchless generosity. We've been saving a place just for this day, wot wot! Have faith, this fish will be thoroughly treasured!"

This is Blathers's description of the newly donated fish:

"Hoo! Indeed, WOO hoo! A stringfish! I've heard it said that this fish is actually very high in fat content... If such words are true, then whatever possessed someone to name it that? If you were to call a portly fellow "stringy," well... Madness would ensue!"

The stringfish can be found in the middle tank in the aquarium.

Blathers will tell you the following about the fish upon donation to the Museum:

"...Stringfish are hardy creatures that can live for up to 15 years with ease! These older fish grow to remarkable sizes actually... One fish even made it to a gargantuan 80 inches! At that size, perhaps we should call it the king of the river! No wonder it looks so serene, eh wot?"

The stringfish can be found in the middle-left tank in the aquarium.

The description plate in the museum will say the following:

"Stringfish live in cold rivers, can grow to over a yard long, and are stout and bulky like logs. They live up to 20 years but grow so slowly that it takes them 15 years to reach full maturity. They are called 'phantom fish' because there are so few of them. Adults are particularly hard to find."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The stringfish grows slowly, but also lives quite a long time for a fish, with up to 15 years being typical. Consequently, while it takes a while, they can get quite large—perhaps even up to six feet long! The stringfish is perhaps the best embodiment in the fish world of 'slow and steady wins the race.' "

Chip will not eat this fish during the Fishing Tourney in City Folk. He will mention that it is too special to eat as it is. However, he will accept it as an entry and will still measure it as usual.













A Sakhalin taimen, the real name of the string fish.
Hucho perryi is one of the largest, most ancient type of salmon species which inhabits the lower to middle reaches of lakes and rivers. It is critically endangered. Females lay between 2,000 - 10,000 eggs each time on sandy/gravelly river bottoms, most of them do not hatch. The fish can be found in areas of the Northwest Pacific, namely Sakhalin, Hokkaidō and parts of the Russian Far East.




