Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U

SoraBandai Namco



Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U









Developer
SoraBandai Namco


Publisher
Nintendo



Platforms
Wii U, 3DS


Release date
3DS Sept 13th, 2014 Oct 3rd 2014 Oct 3rd 2014 Oct 4th 2014Wii U  Nov 21st, 2014 Nov 28th, 2014  Nov 29th, 2014  Dec 6th, 2014


Genre
Fighting, Action, Platform


Modes
Single player, Multiplayer, Online multiplayer


Ratings
ESRB: E10+OFLC: PGPEGI: 12+


Website
http://www.smashbros.com/


Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U is a fighting video game in the Super Smash Bros. series. The game was first announced during E3 2011. The 3DS version was released in Japan on September 13, 2014, in North America and Europe on October 3, 2014, and in Australia on October 4, 2014. The Wii U version was released on November 21st, 2014.

Similar to previous games in the Super Smash Bros. series, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U is a competitive fighting game in which up to four players (eight on Wii U) controlling various Nintendo and third-party characters fight against each other. Players use a variety of attacks to damage their opponents, increasing their damage percentage which makes them easier to knock out of the playing field. Smash Balls, items first introduced in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, make a return, allowing whoever obtains them to perform extremely powerful attacks. Assist trophies, another returning feature from Brawl, are included, such as Skull Kid from The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask and a French Bulldog from Nintendogs. Like its predecessors, Super Smash Bros. features collectable in-game trophies based on characters or items seen in various Nintendo games. Villager appears as a representative of the Animal Crossing series.

Other newcoming characters include Mega Man, the Wii Fit Trainers (Both male and female), Rosalina and Luma from Super Mario Galaxy, Little Mac from Punch-Out!!, the Pokémon Greninja, Robin and Corrin (from Fire Emblem, Mii's, Pac-Man from Pac-Man , Palutena (even though she was Pit's final smash in Brawl) from Kid Icarus, Bowser Jr. from the Mario universe, Shulk from Xenoblade Chronicles, and Mr. Peepers, or Duck Hunt (also known as Duck Hunt Duo in the European release and Duckhunt in the Japanese version) from Duck Hunt. Local and online multiplayer is available in both the Nintendo 3DS and Wii U versions. Cross-platform multiplayer is not possible due to the different maps across each game, however, the player may use a 3DS as a controller for the Wii U version. Both versions include the same roster of playable characters, but the two versions each feature exclusive stages, assist trophies, and collectables. The Nintendo 3DS version features an exclusive Smash Run mode, in which players navigate an open environment for stat-increasing power-ups, before facing each other in a match. The Nintendo Wii U version features an exclusive Smash Tour mode, in which players navigate their way across a board collecting power-ups, before facing each other in a match.

Online matches with strangers are divided into two modes: "For Fun" and "For Glory". For Fun features random stages and items, with Time matches only and Final Destination stages omitted, while For Glory limits matches to Omega Form stages with no items, Stock, and the option for 1-on-1 battles for more tournament-style gameplay. Players are also able to customize characters to alter the behavior of their move set; though, customized characters, including Mii Fighters, may only be used in local and friend matches. Players may transfer customized characters between the 3DS and Wii U versions, as well as certain items earned in specific modes. There is no ranking system for the online matches, but there are plans to ensure that random matches are organized by the players' skill levels.

The Villager is a playable character. Isabelle is an assist trophy character, who assists her summoner by throwing Fruit at the summoner to heal their percentage, although other players aside from the summoner can pick up the fruit too if Isabelle misses.

Most of Villager's attacks are centered around various in-game actions. Some attacks are: firing a slingshot, digging opponents into the ground with a shovel, tripping while holding a pot with a sapling, sending various projectiles into his pocket, cutting a tree down using an axe, firing off a Fountain Firework, and dropping a bowling ball. Villager's Final Smash is called 'Dream Home', and consists of Tom Nook, Timmy, and Tommy building a house for Villager, which promptly explodes, blasting other combatants off the stage.

The Villager character can be customized to an extent just like the player character in the Animal Crossing series, with both male and female versions of the Villager playable.

Villager has eight separate model and color swaps, similar to other fighters, each representative of various playable characters throughout the Animal Crossing series. Four of these are male and four of these are female. Villager has a diverse movepool based on various actions and items found throughout Animal Crossing, focusing on spacing, range, and off-stage play. His moves are listed below as description, uses, and how to perform it.

Tortimer Island makes an appearance.
The Wii U version of the game features a stage called Town & City, based on City Folk. The match starts out floating over a typical Animal Crossing town, with various villagers and Special Characters watching the battle, but Kapp'n drives his bus to the City, and the spectating characters change to reflect the City's shopkeepers. It has two phases, the Town phase with 3 platforms (the center one moves up and down), and the City phase, with 2 mirrored platforms moving side-to-side. It also features an uncommonly low top blast zone, allowing for earlier kills from up-smashes and up-throws. The Smashville stage from SSBB returns, only to Wii U. It has one large platform that moves side-to-side across the entire stage.

On the 3DS version, a stage based on the Island in New Leaf was added, called Tortimer Island. The island's layout changes slightly each time the island is selected. Kapp'n, Leila, Leilani, Grams and Tortimer appear as background characters. Kapp'n appears only when his boat docks at the pier, which happens multiple times throughout the match. Occasionally a Shark will swim in the ocean and deal major damage and knockback to any who touch it. Fruit can drop from trees and be eaten to heal 3-10% damage. This stage is only available on the Nintendo 3DS version of the game.

