Tadpole

Hyla japonica





Tadpole
オタマシャクシ Otamashakushi










AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
#13
#14







Location
Price


Holding pond
100 Bells




Size
Shadow size


1.50 in. 3.85 cm
Tiny




Time of year
Time of day


March to July
All day



Scientific name
Hyla japonica


Family
Hylidae - Tree frogs and their allies



Appearances
NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The tadpole is a common fish introduced in New Leaf. It appears in holding ponds.

When donated to the museum in New Horizons, it is located in the Pond Tank, under a lily pad on which the frog sits. The tadpole's location makes it somewhat hard to spot, unless the player reads the museum display card to pan the camera over to where they are.

In New Leaf, it is located in a cylindrical tank in the River Exhibit separate from the frog.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Tadpoles are nothing more than baby frogs and generally inhabit ponds and streams. Their round heads and quirky style of movement give them a different kind of cuteness from adult frogs. They become more frog-like when they eventually grow legs and start to lose their tails. Unlike fish, though, their skin is very delicate because they do not have scales, so handle carefully."

Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers, the curator, will say:

"Undoubtedly you know that tadpoles eventually turn into frogs. I must say, I find them impossibly adorable with their squiggly little tails. But even cuter... when they sprout legs! Why, we can witness accelerated evolution in these squirmy little ones. Hoo, it makes me so emotional!"







A real tadpole
Tadpoles are the larval stage of frogs and toads. During the tadpole stage of the amphibian life cycle, most respire by means of autonomous external or internal gills. They do not usually have arms or legs until the transition to adulthood, and typically have a large, flattened tail with which they swim by lateral undulation, similar to most fish. Tadpoles typically will not eat during the later stages of their metamorphosis. The hind legs appear first, and the front legs second. Their gills shrink away, and they start to breathe air. As their tails get absorbed into their bodies, tadpoles become froglets or toadlets when they leave the water.



