Talk: Animal Crossing Wiki

N/A



Welcome to the Animal Crossing Wiki's main talk page!

Please use this talk page to discuss proposals to the Main Page.

If you'd like to just chat about the Animal Crossing series, please visit our Forum. Alternatively, check out the Community Portal for information about getting involved with the Wiki.

I have taken the liberty of clearing the Talk Page once again so it's a bit cleaner in here. I believe all the matters were dealt with so it seems a good idea to clear this every year or so.

On a side note: Congratulations everyone on your hard work on the Wiki. I've scoped around online for information regarding New Leaf and it looks as though we are leading the way with quality articles about the upcoming new game.

Best regards, MerrytonRyan (talk) 17:29, May 12, 2013 (UTC)

Has anyone else noticed that the Wiki still has parts calling us Animal Crossing City? I am wondering whether or not the banner and the home page could remove any reference to the old name as this Wikia is called The Animal Crossing Wiki and such a name means we appear right at the top of Google Search results when people search for Animal Crossing Wiki.

I could try making a new banner for us to use when I get the time, but it should be a group decision. If anyone else wants to make a banner then you're of course welcome too. Any suggestions for what to include can be mentioned as well :)

Many thanks, - MerrytonRyan (talk) 17:29, May 12, 2013 (UTC)

Hey! What happened to the pictures? They're hideous now!! ---TacticalMaster (talk) 05:18, August 20, 2013 (UTC)

is it me or is the New Leaf section (above the Featured Content section) messed up? it looks like all the text above the Useful Information list is limited to one character per line. --Kincyr (talk) 18:43, October 2, 2013 (UTC)

I'm back. . .

Ish. . .

Idk I might get NL so :)



I know... I swear to god if you leave again, then... Actually I don't know what I'd do, but I wouldn't want someone to leave the wiki and takes off without saying farewells or how you long your hiatus will be. (╚»★«╝ℓιgнтηιηgЧЭ╚»★«╝ 03:12, January 31, 2014 (UTC))

I'm sorry if this isn't where I should ask this, but I'm not sure where else to, so...yeah. 

Anyways, I have Eloise, Aurora, Snake, Hugh, Pompom, Goose, Rocco, and Alice in my Wild World town. Do we need any images of their houses or them themselves for Wild World? I can get some if needed. Spirit Zelda (talk) 14:49, February 5, 2014 (UTC)

We need a new logo, the same old one gets boring. Luke The Villager (talk) 16:43, September 27, 2014‎ (UTC)

No online resources have any translation between the two, and trying to figure it out on my own is a headache just waiting to kill my brain. Some translations are obvious, since the wiki has a redirect to the Card Series when I search "Trump Series" and the Whirlpool Bath is obviously a Jacuzzi. But I have no idea which computer item is the "Note PC." Can someone please put the North America names in parenthesis, wherever a European name is on this wiki? Or maybe just a whole translation page. Random Waddle Dee Fan (talk) 00:37, April 8, 2015 (UTC)

I just noticed while opening the home page for this wiki that the Pocket Camp section at the top has a slight problem. It looks fine when the page is loading in, but once it loads the ad in the sidebar, the section gets all smushed and it looks really messy... I don't know if there's anything we can do about this, but it's pretty bad for people without ad-block.










Also, I made this post on the general discussion forum, but it wasn't getting much traffic and didn't seem suitable there so I'm moving it here. Feel free to message me if there's an issue with that Souleaterevans626 (talk) 21:22, January 23, 2018 (UTC)


Hi all, I just had a couple of small suggestions for improving the appearance of the main page.

At present, the right rail is way longer than the central column, so I was thinking that the "International Wikis" box could be removed, in favor of having interlanguage links, which would place a small dropdown box at the top right of the page (just above the "Share" button).

Also, since the Wiki has its own Discord server, the outdated Chat module could be removed too, if the community doesn't really use it anymore. With having both, it could potentially be confusing for new visitors on which chat they should use.

Please let me know what you think!

--Bluerock (talk) 19:50, December 3, 2019 (UTC)

Why doesn't this wiki include the Japanese wiki in it's list of other language versions? It is included in the Japanese one after all. Here's the link: https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/ja/wiki Jarie スイクン 03:17, May 23, 2020 (UTC)

I love the Switch title as well.

