Tiger butterfly

Papilio machaon





Tiger butterfly
アゲハチョウ Agehachou









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




#3
#3
#3
#3
#3
#3
#3
–
#3







Location
Price


Near red flowers
200 Bells (GCN)160 Bells (WW, CF, NL)10 Bells (PC)240 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


90 mm
Unknown




Time of year
Time of day


April to September (GCN)March to September (WW, CF, NL, NH)
4am to 7pm (March to June-CF)8am to 5pm (GC, WW, July to August-CF)8am to 4pm (September-CF)4am to 7pm (NH)



Scientific name
Papilio machaon


Family
Papilionidae- Swallowtail Butterflies



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



240 Bells (NH)
The tiger butterfly (アゲハチョウ, Agehachou?) is a common butterfly that can generally be seen during the Spring and Summer months. Contrary to its typical flower-loving brethren in Animal Crossing, in Animal Forest+ and Animal Forest e+ it was only found flying in open spaces away from places, however in Wild World and City Folk it was found near red flowers. In the GCN games they are fast and hard to catch, but in Wild World and beyond, they move slowly, and therefore can be caught more easily. Prior to Wild World, it was called the tiger swallowtail butterfly.

As with all fish and bugs in the Animal Crossing series, the Tiger Butterfly can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers, who will also tell the player a little bit about the donation. Regarding the Tiger Butterfly:

Blathers response upon accepting butterflies for the museum in Animal Crossing is the same for all species:

"There's an old saying among some of my contemporaries: "Butterflies are beautiful, yet moths are monstrous." Well, if you were to ask me, I'd say they were all the same! By which I mean disgusting! Truly hoo-rrific, wot wot!"

Blathers will accept Tiger Butterflies for donation to the bug room of the museum, but this doesn't necessarily mean that he likes them:

"Tiger butterflies are named due to their distinctive tiger-like markings... I must say, I'd almost rather encounter a real tiger than one of these. Real tigers are nowhere near as... wretched."

The Tiger Butterfly can be found hovering around the flowers in the first room of the bug exhibit after donation.

A player catches a Tiger Butterfly
After donation at the museum in City Folk, Blathers the curator will talk about the Tiger Butterfly:

"Aside from the South Pole, one can find Tiger Butterflies just about anywhere on earth. Imagine these monstrous bugs flapping about the whole globe... The very thought robs me of sleep!"

The Tiger Butterfly can be found fluttering around the flowers on the lower tier of the bug room after donation.

After donating a Tiger Butterfly, the museum sign reads:

"The larvae of tiger butterflies feed on leaves of orange trees until they metamorphose. When they're threatened, they emit a foul smell from their antennae to protect themselves. The dusting you see on your fingers whenever you touch their wings is actually from their scales. These scales form the wing pattern as well as repel rainwater, making them very important for survival."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Tiger butterflies are known for their majestic wings, which many consider quite beautiful. Truth be told, I find them monstrous! Those strange striped patterns... They give this owl the goose bumps! And while you may imagine young tiger butterfly larvae to look like lovely green caterpillars... it's not so! Why, when tiger butterflies are but babes, they're covered in unsightly white, brown, and black spots. In this way, they camouflage themselves as...as...bird droppings! Putrid pests, indeed!"

After Day 9 in-game, go to the saving place and sit down at your desk. Pick the "Study the handbook" option and you can complete the "World Insects" lesson with 2 play coins. It adds 72 insects to your collection.

「アゲハチョウを つかまえた! ちょうちよの　アイドル!」 —Animal Forest 







Papilio machaon, also known as the Old World Swallowtail, is a widespread butterfly found throughout Africa, Europe and Asia. It has several subspecies with small variations, but all share the same basic colour scheme; yellow wings with black and blue markings, red eyespots and distinctively shaped wings which resemble the tails of swallows. These butterflies are considered very easy to keep and breed in captivity.




