Toy Day

Animal Crossing,Animal Forest e+,City Folk,New Leaf,New Horizons



Toy Day







Appearance
Animal Crossing,Animal Forest e+,City Folk,New Leaf,New Horizons


Occurs
December 23rd (AC), December 24th


Special character
Jingle



Music
Toy Day Theme


Toy Day (Japanese: クリスマス Christmas) is an event that appears in every Animal Crossing series game except Wild World. It is similar to Christmas.

https://animalcrossing.fandom.com/wiki/File:181_-_Animal_Crossing_New_Leaf_(3DS)_-_Toy_Day_(Christmas,_No_SFX).ogg

In Animal Crossing and the other GCN games, Toy Day occurs on the 23rd of December. Tortimer will be waiting at the Wishing Well and will award the player with a gift. If the player is a boy, they will receive a model of Gracie's car. If the player is a girl, they will receive a doll.

Jingle also appears from 24th December 8 PM on onward and awards a present if he is found five times. The item given depends on the player's answers to his questions.

In City Folk, Toy Day occurs on the 24th of December. Jingle will give the player gifts on this day. The player can change their accessories for more gifts. This holiday is based off of Christmas and the animals will talk about it for weeks beforehand. The player will also get a letter from Jingle prior to Toy Day. The festivities begin at 8 PM and end at midnight.

A good method is for the player to buy as many shirts and accessories as they can before Toy Day, to avoid being recognized by Jingle. To decide what gift to give to the player, Jingle will ask a few questions about the player's interests. If the player answers the first question, for example, as "things to step on", the player is more likely to get the Jingle carpet. If the player wears the same outfit twice, Jingle will not give the player a present. Jingle will be hiding in non-lit houses and occasionally outdoors. Normally, the player cannot go inside unlit houses, but on Toy Day, there are no signs on doors, and the player can enter. 

In New Leaf, Jingle appears in the player's town on December 24th at 6PM. He will say that he doesn't want to deliver the presents, and would rather have it be done by someone dressed as Santa Claus. During the month of December, Santa's outfit (hat, beard, coat, pants, and boots) are for sale at the Able Sisters and Kicks. If the player has bought the outfit, they will receive a magical bag from Jingle which holds the presents of the villagers living in the town at the time.

Earlier in December, the villagers will drop small hints about what they want for Toy Day such as furniture and clothing. On Toy Day, while wearing the Santa costume, villagers will think that the player is actually Santa and will ask for their present. Once all of the presents are delivered, the player should talk to Jingle to receive an item from either the festive or Jingle series. If all presents are delivered to the correct villagers, the player will get Jingle's picture in the mail on December 25th, Christmas day.

During the winter season new clothing can be purchased through Able Sisters along with toys and other holiday items from Nook's Cranny. Upon talking to Jingle he will ask the player to craft 3 sets of festive wrapping paper and give them the DIY recipe. After they’ve been crafted, Jingle will give the player a magic bag and Toy Day stockings in return. After all of the gifts are delivered to the villagers, Jingle will grant the player with a DIY gift pile recipe and a Toy Day sleigh. The player can also exchange gifts with their villagers for Christmas items available from Nook's Cranny after the task is completed. If the stockings are hung on the wall, the player will find a gift inside them the next day being Jingle's customizable framed photo.



