Tuna

Pier





Tuna
#66
マグロ Maguro







Location
Pier


Price
5,000 Bells (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
7,000 Bells


Price (C.J.)
10,500 Bells


Size
90.60 in. (230 cm)


Shadow size
Huge


Seasonality (N)
November to April


Seasonality (S)
May to October


Time of day
All day


Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The tuna is a scarce fish that can be found by the pier at any time of day between the months of November and April. The fish sells for 7,000 Bells at Tom Nook's store, which makes it the second most lucrative winter fish after the stringfish. It makes its first appearance in Wild World and has appeared in every main series game and Pocket Camp.













Blathers will say this when donated to the museum: "If a tuna stops swimming, it will stop breathing and expire, eh wot? As you can imagine, this means that it must swim when it sleeps as well. I think every day about how marvelous life would be if I could work in my sleep!" One can find the tuna in the back tank with the other ocean fish.

Upon donating to the museum, it can be found in the back tank with other ocean fish. 
When given the fish, Blathers will say this: "If tuna stop swimming, they actually lose the ability to breathe and can perish! ...Which means that even while resting, this fish just keeps swimming, eh wot? I really prefer to focus on resting up rather than napping... Rather lucky I was born an owl, wot wot!"

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Tuna can reach almost 10 feet in length and weigh over 800 pounds, which is huge in the fish world. Combining this great size with their good flavor makes them literally the biggest catch for most anglers. Tuna can't breathe when they aren't moving, so their entire lives revolve around constantly swimming. To sleep, they merely slow down. This ability to swim while sleeping is a huge advantage. They're also rather fast, capable of beating both sets of fins so hard they reach speeds of 50 mph."

In New Horizons, Upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The tuna is a large ocean fish that can reach upwards of nine feet long. Besides its great size, it's notable for continuing to swim even when it's sleeping! Well, to be fair, if it doesn't keep swimming, it won't be able to breathe and will of course die... But sleep should be restful, eh wot! If I were the tuna I would feel very hard done by!"

The tuna can be found swimming in a large tank in the front saltwater fish room.

A real-life tuna
There are various types of tuna in existence. As a result of its uses, it has become overfished and due to its late maturity, it is increasingly difficult for it to reproduce to sustain the demand. The Atlantic bluefin tuna is currently classified as Endangered due to its rapid decline. It preys on squid, crustaceans, horse mackerel, and other small fish.




