Walking stick

Neohirasea japonica





Walking stick
ナナフシ Nanafushi









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
#32
#36
#40
–
#66







Location
Price


On trees
600 Bells




Size
Available in rain


85 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


July to November
4am to 8am, 5pm to 7pm



Scientific name
Neohirasea japonica


Family
Phasmatidae



Appearances
WW, CF, NL, NH, PC


Rarity
Scarce (★★★★)



The walking stick (ナナフシ, Nanafushi?) also known as the stick insect is a bug that was introduced in Wild World. It looks like a stick with legs. They are found from July to November. It is fairly difficult for the player to see it, for at some angles, the walking stick may blend in with the tree, also making its color borders turn gray. When approached they will fade away with a boop sound. It is a rare bug. In City Folk, New Leaf, and New Horizons, they have a counterpart, known as the Walking Leaf.

Upon donation, Blathers says:

"The walkingstick not only impersonates a tree branch but will also play dead! Such deceptive creativity both intrigues and disgusts me, I have to say..."

Blathers will talk about the walkingstick as he reluctantly accepts the bug into the museum:

"Walkingsticks can skillfully disguise themselves as twigs or thin branches. What deceptive wretches! Just imagine going to grab what you thought was a twig and having it go SQUISH in your hand... Such epic foulness! Just thinking about that dark day gives me owl bumps!" (Owl bumps is a pun referring to goose bumps)

The walkingstick can be found on the third platform, on the second tree to the left, in the insect exhibition once donated.

Blathers will no longer give a description upon receiving the bug, but the museum description is as follows:

"Walking sticks disguise themselves to confuse predators and are very closely related to walking leaves. They have cylindrical bodies that look like sticks. Some of them can even change their pigmentation. Females can lay eggs without the males, so most of the walking sticks you see are females."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The walking stick looks just like a twig, does it not? Hoo! It even has knots like a real twig would! These bashful bugs mimic plants in this way to hide from predators. A noble goal, you might say. But though the deceptive wretches fool some, they do not fool me! I see these bugs for what they are... Monsters, plain and simple! I say, did you know that walking sticks can grow to two feet long?! Imagine running into one! Surely I would faint."











Phasmatodea (the order of Stick Insects) can be found all over the world in warmer zones, especially the tropics and subtropics. The greatest diversity is found in Southeast Asia and South America, followed by Australia. Phasmids also have a considerable presence in the continental United States, mainly in the Southeast. This type of insect appears remarkably similar to a twig on a tree in order to avoid detection by predators. Some have the ability to change color to suit their surroundings better, and all have been observed to sway in the wind as small twigs would, so they can hide themselves more effectively.



