Welcome amiibo

Nintendo EAD



Animal Crossing: New Leaf - Welcome amiibo
とびだせ どうぶつの森 amiibo+ Tobidase Doubutsu no Mori amiibo+















European box art and game icon




Developer
Nintendo EAD


Publisher
Nintendo



Platforms
Nintendo 3DS


Release date
Packaged version November 23, 2016 November 25, 2016 December 2, 2016eShop Download[ ALL ] November 2, 2016


Genre
Life simulation


Ratings
Cero ASouth Korea A PEGI 3+ESRB E+


Website
AU, UK, US, JP


Welcome amiibo (とびだせ どうぶつの森 amiibo+ Tobidase Doubutsu no Mori amiibo+?) is an update available to New Leaf that was released worldwide on November 2, 2016. The update now introduces amiibo compatibility and various other features.

The update is available to download digitally via the Nintendo eShop or through selecting "Update data" on the title screen. It is also being sold as part of a physical bundle with the new Animal Crossing amiibo update.

The update was initially announced in a Nintendo Direct on July 1, 2016, with another direct covering more information on the update on November 2, 2016.

Welcome amiibo introduces amiibo compatibility to the game. Amiibo figures from the Animal Crossing series and amiibo cards from series 1-4, and Camper cards are compatible.

Villagers can be brought into the player's town by summoning Wisp, a returning special character from the series. He will then prompt the player to scan a character's amiibo. Once summoned, the player can select "Come and play!" and the villager will set up a mobile home in the new campground which is located on the eastern or western cliffs of town (depending on town orientation). The campground is managed by a new special character, Harvey. At that point, the player can invite the villager to live in their town.

Alongside this, 50 villagers from Animal Crossing and Animal Forest e+ who were absent in New Leaf and other games also return to the series with the update. On November 11, 2016, 50 new amiibo cards were released, featuring the returning villagers.

Other amiibo are also compatible, and scanning them will bring exclusive characters and items. Scanning a Splatoon  amiibo will bring Inkwell the octopus, who resembles a squid from the Splatoon franchise. Scanning a Callie or Marie amiibo will bring two squirrel villagers, Cece and Viché, who are references to Callie and Marie, alongside a series of Splatoon-themed furniture and clothing items. Amiibo from The Legend of Zelda series have also been confirmed to work and showcase new villagers; Wolf Link, Medli, Ganon, and Epona, also with new clothing and furniture. Scanning a Japanese-exclusive amiibo from the Monster Hunter series will bring Felyne the cat, who previously appeared as SpotPass DLC for Happy Home Designer. Scanning the Super Smash Bros. Villager amiibo will be too powerful for Wisp and he will go to the campground and have his own RV.

The new villager Holden is unique to Japan. Holden is the result of collaboration between the Fueki company, and arrives in an RV with his own exclusive furniture and clothing. However, he cannot move into town. Filly also appears as Japan DLC, containing furniture and items from the 7-11 set. Like Holden, Filly cannot move into town.

With the amiibo camera, players are able to place villagers into photographs they take with their console's camera.

The update includes two new minigames, Animal Crossing Puzzle League and Desert Island Escape. These can be played by obtaining the Nintendo 3DS XL/New Nintendo 3DS XL furniture to play Animal Crossing Puzzle League, or the Wii U furniture to play Desert Island Escape.

The update also includes new items, including several pieces originally introduced in Happy Home Designer. The player can connect with their Happy Home Designer data if they own the game, which unlocks "giant" furniture. These new giant items are orderable through the catalog. Some other items once unorderable can now be ordered from the catalog, such as sprinklers and lawn mowers.

When a villager or special character moves into a mobile home, the player can order items found inside from a special catalog. Harvey will also showcase exclusive furniture in the campground which are found only in Happy Home Designer. These items are purchased with MEOW Coupons, a new currency that is received by completing town initiatives offered by the CAT Machine.

A secret storeroom can now be purchased from Nook's Homes. This new feature provides a large amount of additional storage space which can be accessed from any room in your house. After a secret storeroom has been purchased, furniture can be arranged using the touch screen as seen in Happy Home Designer.

More minor additions include hanging clothes on the walls of a house, certain chairs functioning as tables, and changing the name of the balloon dog lamp to "balloon poodle lamp".

Several new Fortune Cookie items have been added in this update:

Screenshots can now be shared to Facebook and Twitter directly from a dedicated button on the touch screen. The TPC menu has been divided into two tabs; one tab displaying town initiatives, and the other displaying the TPC. However, this will only work if your system's date matches with the normal date.

Small changes to the way the player interacts have been made.

