Whale shark

Sea





Whale shark
#75
ジンベエザメ Jinbēzame







Location
Sea


Price
8,000 (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
13,000


Price (C.J.)
19,500


Size
275 in. (700 cm)


Shadow size
Huge (with fin)


Seasonality (N)
June to September


Seasonality (S)
December to March


Time of day
All day


Appearances
NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Rare (★★★★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The whale shark is a fish that made its debut in New Leaf. It can only be caught on the island, and is the largest fish that can be caught in the game, meaning it will always win the Fishing Tourney if submitted as an entry.



In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Whale sharks are the world's largest fish, but they're surprisingly some of the gentlest. They can swim at only three mph, so although they're large and very imposing, they're not really a threat. They swim with their mouths open to swallow vast quantities of tiny creatures and sea water. As they expel the water through their gills, they will eat what then remains. Since they don't have to bite prey their teeth are file-like and number about 10,000 in multiple rows."

Upon donation or selecting "tell me about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The mighty whale shark is the largest species of fish in the world with specimens up to 60 feet long! Unlike many of their kin in the shark family, whale sharks are nonviolent, eating only plankton and such. They grow slowly and live long, relaxed lives of filter feeding and leisure in warm waters. So if you ever have to choose a fish as a roommate, you could do worse than the whale shark. Unless you can't swim."





A real-life whale shark.
The whale shark (Rhincodon typus) is the largest fish in the world at 45 (or more) feet. It is found in open waters of the tropical oceans. Modeling suggests a lifespan of about 70 years but measurements have proven difficult. Whale sharks have very large mouths and are filter feeders. They feed mainly on plankton and are generally considered harmless to humans. They have five large pairs of gills. The head is wide and flat with two small eyes at the front. Whale sharks are grey with a white belly.




