Wharf roach

Ligia exotica





Wharf roach
フナムシ Funamushi









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




–
–
–
–
–
–
#47
–
#71







Location
Price


Beach (NL)Beach rocks (NH)
200 Bells




Size
Available in rain


46 mm
Yes




Time of year
Time of day


All year
All day



Scientific name
Ligia exotica


Family
Ligiidae



Appearances
NL, NH


Rarity
Uncommon (★★★)



The wharf roach, Ligia exotica, is a bug that was introduced in New Leaf. This bug will appear on the beach and is very timid, darting away and often burrowing out of sight. It is common on the island, but rarer elsewhere. Though wharf roaches appear in small groupsNH, they can only be caught in singular form, like ants and wasps.

In New Horizons, they only appear on rocks in the beach, not the sand.



In New Leaf, an information board in the bug exhibit will list information about this bug.

"Wharf roaches can be seen along the sea, usually just above the waterline on rocky cliffs. They feed mainly on microalgae and detritus that drift to the seashore, making them cleaners of sorts. They often move in groups and run away quickly when they hear people approaching."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"The wharf roach is an omnivore, which is merely a polite way of saying it will eat almost anything. This skittering scavenger and its uncouth appetite help keep beaches clean, it's said. But I dare say, their long antenna and bulging eyes turn MY stomach.  Unappetizing indeed... "

Wharf roaches are a type of marine isopod and a crustacean that lurks along sandy shorelines. As a relative of the pill bug they feature a segmented carapace and over 10 legs. They are most often found near rocks and cliffs where it spends time in damp crevices. In some places they congregate on manmade stone structures such as harbor walls and jetties. Despite the name, they are not related to cockroaches, and the relation is only that they are fast ground-dwelling organisms.

The native range of the wharf roach is often disputed but it is thought to originate from the Mediterranean coastline or elsewhere along the Indian or Pacific Ocean. The species has been inadvertently introduced to the United States, Hawaii, and several other tropical regions.




