Winter

December, January & February (North)June, July, August (South)



Winter




Official Art for Winter in New Leaf


Months
December, January & February (North)June, July, August (South)


Climate
Snow,Cloudy


Events
Igloo Season,Toy Day,New Years Eve


Winter is one of four seasons in the Animal Crossing series. In the northern hemisphere and all games before New Horizons, it starts in November 26th and lasts until February 24th, or May 26th to August 24th in the southern hemisphere since New Horizons. Like the other seasons, winter has many unique events and characters, as explained below. Winter follows Autumn, and precedes Spring. Winter is characterized by snow on the ground, which melts on the day after the final winter day.

There are many events that occur in the winter, such as Naughty or Nice Day, Toy Day and the New Year's Countdown. Here is a list of the events, what happens in each, in what game and when.

A perfectly proportioned snowman.
A bulletin announcing the arrival of a cold front. This notice means that snow will soon settle in the Player's town.
The weather of winter consists mainly of snowy, cloudy days. In New Leaf, some snowflakes may be more defined. The player can catch these snowflakes with their net. Snow may fall as soon as late November, but won't settle until early December. With the settling of the snow, snowballs can be found dotted around the town. These can be rolled up and joined together to make snowmen, as described above. After December, there is less snowy weather.

In New Horizons, the blizzard is replaced with snow falling on December 9th, and then the island will be fully covered in snow on December 10th. This is shown by the Museum, Nook's Cranny, Able Sisters, Resident Services, and the villagers homes with their roofs covered in snow. It is also noticeable that the days go dark at an earlier time.

Starting December 15th in New Horizons and continuing during December, all existing cedar trees will be decorated with flashing lights, which alternate between blue, green and red. The player must shake any cedar tree several times to make an ornament (which will be either red, yellow, or blue) fall from the tree, which can be used to create an ornament wreath with these ornaments. Any new cedars planted will lack the lights, and after the first week of the year, all lights will disappear. This also occurs for Southern Hemisphere players, although this phenomenon occurs during summer instead.

