Yellow butterfly

Colias erate





Yellow butterfly
モンキチョウ Monki-chou









AF
AF+
AC
e+
WW
CF
NL
PC
NH




#2
#2
#2
#2
#2
#2
#2
#27
#2







Location
Price


Flying Anywhere (AF)Near flowers (AC, WW, CF, NL, NH)
80 Bells (AC)90 Bells (WW, CF, NL)10 Bells (PC)160 Bells (NH)




Size
Available in rain


50 mm
No




Time of year
Time of day


March to October (AC)March to September (WW)March to June, September (CF)March to June, September to October(NH)
4am to 7pm (CF - March to June)8am to 4pm (WW,CF - September)8am to 5pm (AC)4am to 7pm(NH)



Scientific name
Colias erate


Family
Pieridae - White butterflies



Appearances
AF, AF+, AC, AFe+, WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Common (★)



The yellow butterfly, Colias erate, is a common butterfly that can be found anywhere near flowers and is as abundant as the common butterfly. The yellow butterfly is present in every game and flutters slowly around town from March to October. It is very similar to the common butterfly, in every way but color. In Animal Crossing, this bug was known as the clouded yellow butterfly. It was the first bug to appear in New Leaf pre-release information with a photo of one flying near a tree.

90 Bells (WW, CF, NL)10 Bells (PC)160 Bells (NH)
March to September (WW)March to June, September (CF)March to June, September to October(NH)
8am to 5pm (AC)4am to 7pm(NH)
As with all bugs and fish in Animal Crossing series, the yellow butterfly can be donated to the museum by talking to Blathers. During each donation, he will enlighten the player with some information about the donation. Below are quotes from each game on what he has to say:

Blathers response upon accepting butterflies for the museum in Animal Crossing is the same for all species:

"There's an old saying among some of my contemporaries: "Butterflies are beautiful, yet moths are monstrous." Well, if you were to ask me, I'd say they were all the same! By which I mean disgusting! Truly hoo-rrific, wot wot!"

The yellow butterfly can be found fluttering around the flowers in the central display in the bug room after donation.

Upon donation, Blathers the curator speaks of the yellow butterfly:

"Butterflies are covered in "scales" that flake off when touched, eh wot? Blech... The very thought makes my eyebrows itch unbearably... Anyhoo, I suppose that's neither here nor there..."

As with other butterflies, the yellow butterfly can be found flapping around the flowers in the first room of the bug display.

Once again, Blathers will speak of the yellow butterfly in a rather horrified way:

"We call them all yellow butterflies, but many subspecies of this insect exist, wot wot? Indeed, this fact makes them rather interesting to many researchers... What's more interesting to me is why anyone in their proper mind would take interest in these things."

In City Folk, the yellow butterfly appears flying around the flowers on the lower terrace of the bug room.

After donating a yellow butterfly, the museum sign reads:

"The yellow butterfly is similar to the common butterfly, with the two easily mistaken for one another. Males are more often a yellowish color, and females are more often white. The larvae feed on plants of the Fabacae family, such as milk vetch or white clover."

When either donating to the museum or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say (with abhorrence):

"Allow me to enlighten you... The yellow butterfly is named for its yellow wings. Need I say more? If I must, then allow me to note that the female yellow butterfly can lay up to 600 eggs at a time! Bleech! And their creepy crawly caterpillars just love to chomp on clover plants. A recipe for disaster, I say. Just imagine reaching for a four-leaf clover, only to touch a larva instead! Yuck! The worst of luck!"

「モンキチョウを　つかまえた! きいろくて、キュ―ト!」 —Animal Forest 







A real yellow butterfly.
The yellow butterfly is a representation of a species called the pale clouded yellow. This kind of butterfly has a range stretching from Japan in the east all the way to Albania in the west, and can be found as far south as Ethiopia and Somalia. It is a small butterfly, and its wingspan does not exceed 3cm even in a fully-grown adult. It flies during the summer in two generations, and feeds on plants in the bean family.




