Yellow perch

River





Yellow perch
#21
イエローパーチ ierōpāchi







Location
River


Price
10 Bells (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
240 Bells (WW, CF, NL) 300 Bells (NH)


Price (C.J.)
450 Bells


Size
14.60 in. 35 cm


Shadow size
Small (WW), Medium (CF, NL, NH)


Seasonality (N)
October to March


Seasonality (S)
April to September


Time of day
All day


Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)



The yellow perch is a fish found in the river at any time of the day during the months of October through March. Its shadow size is small, the same size as the crucian carp and horse mackerel. It was introduced in Wild World and is considered a "winter fish".



「イエローパーチを　釣り上げた！　そんなに　黄色くもない」 —Wild World and City Folk

「イエローパーチを　釣り上げた！　そんなに　黄色くもない」 —New Leaf 

The yellow perch can be donated to the Museum by talking to Blathers, who will give a small speech about the donation:

Blathers has this to say about the yellow perch when you donate it:

"Most of the Perch family have perched on a dinner table at some time. Indeed, these fish are available for perch-ase all over the world, wot! Therefore, I imagine the yellow perch would also be edible, don't you think?"

Blathers has this to say about the yellow perch when you donate it:

"Yellow perch have spiny dorsal fins that make them look rather tough. Here's an interesting tidbit: as fry, these fish will hide amongst water plants by standing on their heads! It stands to reason that a tough fish like this one must be clever from the day it's born..."

The yellow perch appears in the middle-right tank of the aquarium.

In New Leaf, an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"These fish are relatives of sea bass, though they're preyed on by other, larger fish, such as black bass. Their defining features are their large, prickly dorsal fins and gray stripes on pale-yellow bodies. Ice fishing on frozen lakes is a very popular way to catch them in their native United States and Canada. They are often fried before being eaten, which makes them a simple but tasty meal."

"The yellow perch is certainly worth squawking about. I find it a sight to behold! That jagged dorsal fin! Those brilliant stripes! Those glorious colours! Hoo, truly it is quite the specimen. I would be thrilled to witness it firsthand in its natural environment... But the yellow perch's peak season is winter, I'm afraid. (So very afraid... of winter's biting chill...)"









Two real yellow perches
The yellow perch is a species of perch found in the United States and Canada, where it is sometimes referred to as the shortform perch. Yellow perch look similar to the European perch but are paler and more yellowish, with less red in the fins. They have an active lifestyle during the day, when they feed. They have 6-8 dark vertical bars on their sides to protect themselves from predators. Yellow Perch are fairly easy to catch and are often caught while fishing for species in which they share the same body of water. As mentioned in the 'Bugs and Fish' window in City Folk, there are lures designed to look like perch, usually to catch bass but other fish are attracted to them too, such as pike. They weigh about four pounds and are generally 4 to 15 inches long.




