Zebra turkeyfish

Ocean, Island





Zebra turkeyfish
#53
ミノカサゴ Minokasago







Location
Ocean, Island


Price
100 Bells (Pocket Camp)


Price (Nook)
500 Bells


Price (C.J.)
750 Bells


Size
11.70 in. (30 cm)


Shadow size
Medium


Seasonality (N)
April to November


Seasonality (S)
October to May


Time of day
All day


Appearances
WW, CF, NL, PC, NH


Rarity
Fairly Common (★★)


Information correct as of New Horizons



The zebra turkeyfish is a fish that can be found in the ocean during the months of April through to November, at any time of the day. It has a small shadow.



「ミノカサゴを　釣り上げた！ヒレに毒があるから　触るとキケン！」 —New Horizons 

In PC, the zebra turkeyfish can be found in Saltwater Shores and its price is 100 Bells.

I won't tell you it's utterly impossible to eat a zebra turkeyfish, but I really wouldn't recommend it, to be honest. If you insist though, you know my philosophy: batter, batter and more batter!

Upon donating it to the Museum, Blathers will say;

"As its flashy coloration suggests, the zebra turkeyfish is poisonous. In other words, it's trying to tell you, "Touch me and you're sure to be right sorry, my fine friend!" Its slow, deliberate swimming style also suggests that this is one fish not to mess with!"

It can be found in the tank at the back of the aquarium, with the other ocean fish.

In New Leaf an information board in the aquarium will list information about this fish.

"Zebra turkeyfish have long, beautiful fins that flow like gowns as they swim through the sea. However, these aquatic beauties pack a punch, as their fins are filled with poisonous spikes. Aside from protection against predators, this poison comes in handy for turn wars between males. The losing male succumbs to the poison in a matter of days, making these battles life and death."

In New Horizons, upon donation or selecting "Tell me more about this!", Blathers the curator will say:

"The sheer brilliance and diversity found in the aquatic underworld never cease to amaze me. This zebra turkeyfish is as stunning to gaze upon as it is deadly. Those spines that are part of its defining physique are chock-full of venom. Fortunately, zebra turkeyfish are not susceptible to another's venom. Though solitary, I imagine they give one another a mean fin bump when passing each other by."











A Luna Lionfish in real life
The luna lionfish (Pterois lunulata), also known as the Japanese lionfish is a small fish. It is not really the species known as the zebra turkeyfish. It is known as minokasago in Japan and is found in the Indo-Pacific region, east Asia and up to north Australia, Queensland and New Caledonia. It is harvested as a food source by fishermen who remove the toxic spines. They are found in rocky and open substrates with remote outcrops of reef or soft-bottom substrates at moderate depths.




